Source Name: Data Booklet #01. Data Booklet #01:( The Male Reproductive System
https://drive.google.com/file/d/1irJYAMSP4yrE4V08Lhd5AFk3mXprfBno/view?usp=share_link
(Cowper's)
The organs of reproduction in the male are the testes. The testes are located outside the abdominal cavity in the scrotum. The temperature of the abdominal cavity is too high for production of sperm cells. The scrotum is a pouch of skin that adjusts to keep the testes as close to or as far from the body as necessary to maintain an optimal temperature for sperm development.

Within each testis are the seminiferous tubules, where the sperm cells are produced by meiosis. There are about 250 meters of seminiferous tubules in each testis.

https://drive.google.com/file/d/12vNvVj1pv8-HPekZbpAoRMJhZnoACP6v/view?usp=share_link


Sperm Cell Formation

Cells called spermatogonia, line the inside of the seminiferous tubules. Spermatogonia divide by meiosis to produce spermatocytes. The spermatocytes differentiate into spermatids that will develop into mature sperm. The developing sperm cells are nourished by the Sertoli cells. Once sperm form, they move into the epididymis, a coiled tube attached to the posterior border of the testes, where they mature and are stored. This takes about 4 days.
https://drive.google.com/file/d/1oGqRo6t825tr0HFRygaTQtCKUhA_CoYE/view?usp=share_link

https://drive.google.com/file/d/11KbRZk-sTTAAqJ-eSPIBk9jwQFupGeOs/view?usp=share_link
from http://www.biosci.uga.edu/almanac/bio_103/notes/apr_4.html.

https://drive.google.com/file/d/1chvKAOO52t2UWBI0DCzBMX-5l-RoBXwy/view?usp=share_link


Sperm production begins at puberty at continues throughout life, with several hundred million sperm being produced each day.

Sperm leave the epididymis and pass into the vas deferens, then through a short ejaculatory duct that passes through the prostate gland and finally into the urethra. The urethra passes through the penis and opens to the outside. As the sperm move through the vas deferens, secretions from the seminal vesicles add fructose and prostaglandins to sperm. The prostate gland secretes a milky alkaline fluid that buffers the acidic environment of the vagina. The Cowper's gland (Bulbourethral gland) secretes a mucus-like fluid that provides lubrication for intercourse. Sperm and secretions make up semen.

 


https://drive.google.com/file/d/1chvKAOO52t2UWBI0DCzBMX-5l-RoBXwy/view?usp=share_link
"An accessory gland" is Cowper's gland (Bulbourethral gland)

Male Sex Hormones

At puberty, the hypothalamus secretes gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH). GnRH stimulates the anterior pituitary to release follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) and luteinizing hormone (LH). LH stimulates the interstitial cells in the seminiferous tubules to secrete testosterone, which stimulates sperm production and developing male secondary sex characteristics after puberty. FSH stimulates sperm production and maturation. Negative feedback by testosterone controls the production of GnRH and therefore its own production. It is also believed that the Sertoli cells, which are stimulated by FSH, produce a hormone called inhibin which feeds back to the hypothalamus. (See page 411 of Nelson Biology)
The Female Reproductive System
https://drive.google.com/file/d/1chvKAOO52t2UWBI0DCzBMX-5l-RoBXwy/view?usp=share_link


Egg cell Production

The ovaries are the organs of reproduction in the female. They located within the lower abdominal cavity. The ovary contains as many as 400 000 follicles at birth. A follicle is composed of a developing egg surrounded by an outer layer of follicle cells. Each egg begins as a primary oocyte. At birth, each primary oocyte, is in Prophase I. Each month, after puberty, normally, one primary oocyte will develop into a secondary oocyte or developing egg and is released. This will continue until menopause. A total of 400-500 eggs will therefore be released during the average woman's lifetime.

https://drive.google.com/file/d/1S3P5DhTiTCLkgIBEsRsdGkRITWvuTAki/view?usp=share_link


Under the influence of FSH, nutrient follicle cells that surround the primary oocyte begin to divide. As the primary oocyte goes through meiosis I , the majority of nutrients and cytoplasm move to one of the poles and form a secondary oocyte. The remaining cell is the polar body. It receives little cytoplasm and dies. The secondary oocyte will form the egg.


https://drive.google.com/file/d/1DNcup0QIhT1rub353eh9bQADNpd3Pl4V/view?usp=share_link

Female Sex Hormones

Menstrual Cycle

The menstrual cycle usually lasts 28 days. During the first phase, the oocyte matures within a follicle. At midpoint of the cycle, the oocyte is released from the ovary in a process known as ovulation. Following ovulation the follicle forms a corpus luteum which synthesizes and prepares hormones to prepare the uterus for pregnancy.

These cycles are interrupted only by pregnancy and continue until menopause, when reproductive capability ends.

Hormones from the hypothalamus and anterior pituitary control the menstrual cycle.

https://drive.google.com/file/d/1ALLlpXWqBgcUJfzjt-GOTTQxN4eZaXtV/view?usp=share_link


Follicular Phase

FSH is secreted on day 0. FSH stimulates the maturation of a single follicle in one of the ovaries. The maturing follicle will begin the secretion of estrogen. Rising levels of estrogen in the blood will feedback to reduce and stop the release of FSH, and trigger the secretion of LH, which stimulates follicle maturation and ovulation, approximately day 14.

Luteal Phase

After ovulation, LH stimulates the remaining follicle cells to form the corpus luteum, which will continue to produce both estrogen and progesterone.

Estrogen and progesterone continue to stimulate the development of the endometrium and uterine lining for implantation, and prevent the release of FSH.

Flow Phase

If pregnancy does not occur, the drop in estrogen and progesterone cause the corpus luteum to disintegrate into the corpus albicans. The drop in hormones also causes the sloughing off of the inner lining of the uterus by a series of muscle contractions of the uterus.

https://drive.google.com/file/d/1sxnIUA4rmD0hCNQ3lA3RxqzmS3NJtMJ0/view?usp=share_link

If pregnancy does occur, the corpus luteum will continue to produce estrogen and progesterone, (preventing the release of FSH and continuing to maintain the endometrium) for about 3 months, after which, the palacenta (which is now fully formed) will take over and begin to release estrogen and progesterone. This will continue throughout the term of the pregnancy.

Sexually Transmitted Diseases

STDs are grouped into three categories.

Category One
STDs that produce inflammation of the urethra, epididymis, cervix, or oviducts. Gonorrhea and chlamydia are the most common STDs in this category. Both diseases can be treated and cured with antibiotics, once diagnosed.

Category Two
STDs that produce sores on the external genitals. Genital herpes is the most common disease in this class, affecting more than 25 million individuals in the US. Symptoms of herpes can be treated by antiviral drugs, but the infection cannot be cured. Syphilis is a bacterially caused infection, and can, if left untreated, cause serious symptoms and death. However, the disease is curable with antibiotics.

Category Three
This class of STDs includes viral diseases that affect organ systems other than those of the reproductive system. AIDS and hepatitis B are in this category. Both can be spread by sexual contact or blood. Infectious individuals may appear symptom-free for years after infection.)






Here is Sources (Page #472-475)                                                                            Reply to this message with the source name and all the text in the bracket is the source itself that you will use to answer questions
Source Name: Page #472. Page #472: (
Chapter 14: The Continuance of Human Life

The reproductive system is unique in that its organs and chemical pathways are not all contained within the body of one individual. The interactions between male and female parents, and between mother and fetus, are the basis for the continuance of human life. The reproductive system functions mainly to support the continuation of the species rather than the well-being of an individual.

Chapter 15: Human Development

The human body undergoes significant changes from conception to childhood to adulthood and through the senior years. These changes are regulated by a combination of genetic, endocrine, and environmental factors. Human development is a complex process that involves cell differentiation and the formation of various body systems.

Focussing Questions:

In what ways does a human change from conception to childhood to adulthood, and then through the senior years?
What are the roles of chemical control systems in regulating human reproduction?
How do reproductive technologies challenge the options, assumptions, and beliefs of individuals and society?
Introduction:

The reproductive system is a complex network of organs and chemical pathways that contributes to the continuation of the human species. Unlike other body systems, its organs and chemical pathways are not all contained within the body of one individual. The interactions between male and female parents, and between mother and fetus, are crucial for the survival of the human species. In this unit, you will learn about the structures and processes involved in human sexual reproduction and the development of a new human. Additionally, you will explore some of the social and ethical questions related to the science and technology of human reproduction and development.

Unit PreQuiz:

Visit www.albertabiology.ca for the Unit PreQuiz.)



Reply to this message with the source name and all the text in the bracket is the source itself that you will use to answer questions
Source Name: Page #473. Page #473: (Blank)                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                Reply to this message with the source name and all the text in the bracket is the source itself that you will use to answer questions.

Source Name: Page #474. Page #474: (
Unit 6 Preparation: Endocrine System

-To prepare for this unit, you should have a good understanding of the endocrine system. Table P6.1 provides an overview of the principal endocrine glands and some of their hormones. The endocrine system consists of glands and tissues that secrete hormones, which are chemical signals that affect the activity of other glands or tissues in the body. The endocrine system plays a prominent role in the development of reproductive organs as well as the development of new human life.

-Table P6.1: Principal Glands of the Endocrine System and Some of their Hormones. This table provides an overview of the principal glands of the endocrine system and some of their hormones. The endocrine system interacts with the nervous system to regulate the activities of other body systems and to maintain homeostasis.

--Hypothalamus: secretes hypothalamic releasing- and inhibiting-hormones that regulate anterior pituitary hormones such as human growth hormone (hGH), thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH), adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH), follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), luteinizing hormone (LH), and prolactin (PRL).

--Anterior pituitary: secretes human growth hormone (hGH), thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH), adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH), follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), luteinizing hormone (LH), and prolactin (PRL).

--Posterior pituitary: secretes antidiuretic hormone (ADH) and oxytocin (OCT).

--Thyroid gland: secretes thyroxine (T4) and calcitonin.

--Parathyroid gland: secretes parathyroid hormone (PTH).

--Adrenal cortex: secretes glucocorticoids (e.g., cortisol), mineralocorticoids (e.g., aldosterone), and gonadocorticoids.

--Adrenal medulla: secretes epinephrine and norepinephrine.

--Pancreas: secretes insulin and glucagon.

--Ovaries: secrete estrogen and progesterone.

--Testes: secrete testosterone.

-Understanding the roles of these hormones and glands is essential for understanding how the endocrine system regulates human reproduction and development. )                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                
Reply to this message with the source name and all the text in the bracket is the source itself that you will use to answer questions
Source Name: Page #475. Page #475: (
Figure P6.1 The hypothalamus produces two hormones, ADH and oxytocin, which are stored and secreted by the posterior pituitary gland. The hypothalamus also controls the secretions of the anterior pituitary, which itself controls secretions of other endocrine glands such as the gonads.)




Here are the Sources (Pages #476-479) Only reply to this message with the source names I have provided in this message.                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                             

Reply to this message with the source name and all the text in bracket is the source itself that you will use to answer questions
Source Name: Page #476. Page #476: (
Chapter 14: The Continuance of Human Life

Chapter Concepts
14.1 The Male and Female Reproductive Systems

The male and female reproductive systems have features in common as well as features that distinguish one from the other.
The reproductive cells (gametes) in males are sperm and in females are eggs (ova).
14.2 The Effect of Sexually Transmitted Infections on the Reproductive Systems

Sexually transmitted infections may be caused by a variety of organisms, including bacteria and viruses.
Sexually transmitted infections can harm the health of individuals as well as interfere with the proper functioning of egg and sperm cells.
14.3 Hormonal Regulation of the Reproductive Systems

Hormonal as well as genetic (chromosomal) factors affect the formation of the gonads and reproductive organs during prenatal (pre-birth) development.
Sex hormones help in the maintenance and function of male and female reproductive systems.
Contact between sperm and egg is the central event of human reproduction. At that moment, reproductive processes in two different individuals join together to create the single cell that will develop over a period of nine months into a new human being. While most mammals can produce more young than humans can, humans are among the few species able to mate and produce young at any time of year. This ability helps to make human populations very mobile and adaptable to new surroundings. In association with our intelligence and technological capabilities, the ability to conceive at any time is one of the factors that has enabled our species to establish our populations almost everywhere on Earth and even to seek and create environments for ourselves beyond the confines of our planet.)                                                  Reply to this message with the source name and all the text in bracket is the source itself that you will use to answer questions.

Source Name: Page #477
Page #477: (
Launch Lab: Inside Story

Different species of animals have evolved various reproductive strategies. For instance, in late fall, a female salmon lays hundreds to thousands of eggs in the gravel bed of a stream. At the same time, the male releases millions of sperm over the eggs. The fertilized eggs develop through the winter, and the hatchlings emerge in the spring.

Procedure:

1.In small groups, create a list of the main features of salmon reproductive strategies and compare them to human reproduction. Use a table or a graphic organizer to organize your ideas.
2. Based on the comparison, predict the differences in the reproductive organs of salmon and humans. Record your ideas in a chart or a table.
Analysis:

1. What are the adaptive advantages and disadvantages of having a reproductive strategy in which fertilization and fetal development take place within the female body?
2. Do you think a male salmon has a penis? Why or why not?
3. Do you think a female salmon has a uterus? Why or why not?
4. Compare human sperm and egg. What are the adaptive advantages of the differences between them?

Additionally, Pioneers 10 and 11 are two space probes carrying a plaque into deep space, waiting for possible discovery by intelligent beings from another planet. Many people on Earth were concerned that human sexual characteristics were displayed so prominently. Discuss why human sexuality and reproduction are sensitive topics. )


Reply to this message with the source name and all the text in the bracket is the source itself that you will use to answer questions.

Source Name: Page #478. Page #478: (
SECTION: The Male and Female Reproductive Systems

Section Outcomes:

Examine the principal features of the human reproductive system
Identify male and female reproductive structures and describe their functions
Observe prepared slides of ovaries and testes, and distinguish gametes from their supporting structures in each of these organs
Key Terms:

Gonads
Sex hormones
Primary sex characteristics
Secondary sex characteristics
Sperm cells
Testes
Scrotum
Seminiferous tubules
Sertoli cells
Epididymis
Ductus deferens
Ejaculatory duct
Penis
Seminal vesicles
Prostate gland
Cowper’s gland
Semen
Urethra
Ejaculation
Ovaries
Ova
Follicle
Ovulation
Fimbriae
Oviduct
Uterus
Endometrium
Cervix
Vagina
Menstruation
Vulva
The human reproductive system is designed to unite a single reproductive cell from a female parent with a single reproductive cell from a male parent. The male and female reproductive systems have very different structures and functions but also share many features. Both systems include a pair of gonads (testes and ovaries) that produce reproductive cells, or gametes. The gonads also produce sex hormones that control the development and function of the reproductive system.

The human reproductive system includes internal and external sex organs, ducts, and glands that play a role in forming and transporting gametes. The structures that play a direct role in reproduction are called primary sex characteristics, while features that are not directly related to reproductive function are called secondary sex characteristics.

The male reproductive system produces and stores large numbers of sperm cells. The testes, located in the scrotum, produce sperm in a network of seminiferous tubules with the help of Sertoli cells. The sperm travel to the epididymis, where they mature and are stored until ejaculation. During ejaculation, sperm travel through the ductus deferens, the ejaculatory duct, and the urethra to exit the body through the penis. Along the way, the sperm are mixed with fluids from the seminal vesicles, prostate gland, and Cowper’s gland to form semen.

The female reproductive system produces and releases eggs, or ova, which are fertilized by sperm to form a zygote. The ovaries are responsible for producing eggs and female sex hormones. The eggs are released from the ovaries into the fimbriae, hair-like structures that guide the egg into the oviduct. The egg may be fertilized by sperm in the oviduct, and if fertilization occurs, the resulting zygote travels to the uterus where it implants in the endometrium. If fertilization does not occur, the endometrium is shed during menstruation. The cervix, which connects the uterus to the vagina, helps protect the uterus and allows for the passage of sperm during intercourse. The vulva includes the external structures of the female reproductive system, including the labia and clitoris.

Table 14.1 Primary and Secondary Sex Characteristics 

BiologyFile 
FYI 

The term gonad comes from a Greek word that means “procreation.” The term gamete comes from a Greek word that means “marriage,” referring to the union of a sperm and an egg. 

BiologyFile 
FYI 

About 3 percent of all baby boys are born with testes that have not descended properly. This condition can be corrected surgically. 
R R E D D 
S A 
Figure 14.2 Structures of the male reproductive system. Sperm originate in the testes and leave the male body through the penis. The testes and the penis are located outside the body, while most of the other sexual structures are located inside the body. 
Sex Primary sex characteristics 
male  • gonads (testes)  • penis  
• scrotum  • seminal vesicles  
• epididymis  • prostate gland  
• ductus deferens  • Cowper’s gland  
female  • gonads (ovaries) • cervix  
• oviducts  • vagina  
• uterus  • vulva  

gametes) and organs that help to deposit these sperm cells within the female reproductive tract. Some of the male reproductive structures are located outside the body, and others are located inside the body. Figure 14.2 shows the male reproductive system. Refer to this .gure as you read through the following paragraphs. Table 14.2, on page 481, summarizes the functions of the male reproductive organs. 
The Testes 

The two male gonads are called the testes. The testes are held outside the body in a pouch of skin called the scrotum. The scrotum regulates the temperature of 
R 
R 
S 
A 
S 
S N 

Selected secondary sex characteristics (with wide variations among individuals and ethnic groups) 
•
 facial hair • body hair 

• 
deeper voice, broader shoulders, narrower hips, and more obvious muscle development compared with female 

• 
minimal facial hair • minimal body hair 

• 
prominent breasts (compared with male) 

• 
higher voice, more rounded shoulders, wider hips, and less obvious muscle development compared with male 


the testes. Sperm production is most successful at temperatures around 35 °C— that is, a few degrees cooler than normal body temperature. In cold conditions, the scrotum draws close to the body, so the testicles stay warm. In hot conditions, the scrotum holds the testicles more loosely, allowing them to remain cooler than the body. 
As shown in Figure 14.3, the testes 
are composed of long, coiled tubes, 
called seminiferous tubules, as well as 
hormone-secreting cells, called interstitial 
cells, that lie between the seminiferous 
tubules. The interstitial cells secrete 
the male hormone testosterone. The 
seminiferous tubules are where sperm 
E E T D D S S M 

Reply to this message with the source name and all the text in the bracket is the source itself that you will use to answer questions.

Source Name: Page #479. Page #479: (
Table 14.1 Primary and Secondary Sex Characteristics

Sex Primary sex characteristics Secondary sex characteristics
male • gonads (testes) • facial hair
• penis • body hair
• scrotum • deeper voice, broader shoulders, narrower hips, and more obvious muscle development compared with female
• seminal vesicles
• epididymis
• prostate gland
• ductus deferens
• Cowper’s gland
female • gonads (ovaries) • minimal facial hair
• cervix • minimal body hair
• oviducts
• vagina • prominent breasts (compared with male)
• uterus • higher voice, more rounded shoulders, wider hips, and less obvious muscle development compared with male
• vulva

BiologyFile FYI
The term gonad comes from a Greek word that means “procreation.” The term gamete comes from a Greek word that means “marriage,” referring to the union of a sperm and an egg.

BiologyFile FYI
About 3 percent of all baby boys are born with testes that have not descended properly. This condition can be corrected surgically.

Figure 14.2 Structures of the male reproductive system.
Sperm originate in the testes and leave the male body through the penis. The testes and the penis are located outside the body, while most of the other sexual structures are located inside the body.

The male reproductive system includes the gonads (testes), the ducts that transport the sperm cells (and other gametes), and organs that help to deposit these sperm cells within the female reproductive tract. Some of the male reproductive structures are located outside the body, and others are located inside the body. Figure 14.2 shows the male reproductive system. Refer to this figure as you read through the following paragraphs. Table 14.2, on page 481, summarizes the functions of the male reproductive organs.

The Testes
The two male gonads are called the testes. The testes are held outside the body in a pouch of skin called the scrotum. The scrotum regulates the temperature of the testes. Sperm production is most successful at temperatures around 35 °C— that is, a few degrees cooler than normal body temperature. In cold conditions, the scrotum draws close to the body, so the testicles stay warm. In hot conditions, the scrotum holds the testicles more loosely, allowing them to remain cooler than the body. As shown in Figure 14.3, the testes are composed of long, coiled tubes, called seminiferous tubules, as well as hormone-secreting cells, called interstitial cells, that lie between the seminiferous tubules. The interstitial cells secrete the male hormone testosterone. The seminiferous tubules are where sperm are produced.
)





Here are the Sources (Pages #480-484) Only reply to this message with the source names I have provided in this message.                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                             

Reply to this message with the source name and all the text in the bracket is the source itself that you will use to answer questions.

Source Name: Page #480. Pages #480: (
Table 14.1 Primary and Secondary Sex Characteristics

Sex Primary sex characteristics
male • gonads (testes) • penis
• scrotum • seminal vesicles
• epididymis • prostate gland
• ductus deferens • Cowper’s gland
female • gonads (ovaries) • cervix
• oviducts • vagina
• uterus • vulva

Selected secondary sex characteristics (with wide variations among individuals and ethnic groups)
• facial hair • body hair
• deeper voice, broader shoulders, narrower hips, and more obvious muscle development compared with female
• minimal facial hair • minimal body hair
• prominent breasts (compared with male)
• higher voice, more rounded shoulders, wider hips, and less obvious muscle development compared with male

BiologyFile FYI
The term gonad comes from a Greek word that means “procreation.” The term gamete comes from a Greek word that means “marriage,” referring to the union of a sperm and an egg.

BiologyFile FYI
About 3 percent of all baby boys are born with testes that have not descended properly. This condition can be corrected surgically.

Figure 14.2 Structures of the male reproductive system. Sperm originate in the testes and leave the male body through the penis. The testes and the penis are located outside the body, while most of the other sexual structures are located inside the body.

The male reproductive system includes structures that produce sperm cells (also known as gametes) and organs that help to deposit these sperm cells within the female reproductive tract. Some of the male reproductive structures are located outside the body, and others are located inside the body. Figure 14.2 shows the male reproductive system. Refer to this figure as you read through the following paragraphs. Table 14.2, on page 481, summarizes the functions of the male reproductive organs.

The Testes

The two male gonads are called the testes. The testes are held outside the body in a pouch of skin called the scrotum. The scrotum regulates the temperature of the testes. Spermproduction is most successful at temperatures around 35 °C— that is, a few degrees cooler than normal body temperature. In cold conditions, the scrotum draws close to the body, so the testicles stay warm. In hot conditions, the scrotum holds the testicles more loosely, allowing them to remain cooler than the body.

As shown in Figure 14.3, the testes are composed of long, coiled tubes, called seminiferous tubules, as well as hormone-secreting cells, called interstitial cells, that lie between the seminiferous tubules. The interstitial cells secrete the male hormone testosterone. The seminiferous tubules are where sperm cells are produced through the process of spermatogenesis.

The Epididymis and Ductus Deferens

After sperm are produced in the seminiferous tubules, they are passed into a network of coiled tubes called the epididymis, where they mature and become motile. From the epididymis, sperm travel through the ductus deferens, which is a muscular tube that can propel sperm from the epididymis to the urethra.

Accessory Glands

Several accessory glands contribute secretions to the semen, which is the fluid that carries sperm out of the body during ejaculation. These accessory glands include the seminal vesicles, prostate gland, and Cowper’s gland. The seminal vesicles secrete a fluid that is rich in fructose, which provides energy for the sperm. The prostate gland secretes a thin, milky fluid that contains enzymes and nutrients. The Cowper’s gland secretes a clear, slippery fluid that neutralizes any acidity that may be present in the urethra.

The Penis

The penis is the male organ that is used for sexual intercourse. The penis contains three erectile tissues that fill with blood during sexual arousal, causing the penis to become erect. At the tip of the penis is the urethral meatus, which is the opening through which semen and urine exit the body. During ejaculation, semen is expelled from the penis through the urethra.

The Male Reproductive System

The male reproductive system is responsible for producing and delivering sperm cells to the female reproductive tract. Sperm cells are the male reproductive cells that combine with a female’s egg cell to form a zygote, which develops into an embryo and eventually a fetus.

In addition to the production and delivery of sperm cells, the male reproductive system also produces and secretes hormones that are responsible for male sexual development and secondary sex characteristics. The primary male sex hormone is testosterone, which is produced by the testes. Testosterone is responsible for the development of male secondary sex characteristics, such as facial and body hair, deeper voice, and muscle development.

Understanding the male reproductive system is essential for understanding human reproduction and development. It is also important for understanding common male reproductive disorders, such as erectile dysfunction, infertility, and prostate cancer.)                 Reply to this message with the source name and all the text in the bracket is the source itself that you will use to answer questions.


Source Name: Page #481. Page #481: (
Male Reproductive System

Relationship among the Structures:

The testes produce sperm and sex hormones. The seminiferous tubules are responsible for the production of sperm. The epididymis is responsible for the maturation and storage of sperm. The ductus deferens conduct and store sperm. The scrotum supports and protects the testes.

Distinguish between Interstitial Cells and Sertoli Cells:

Interstitial cells are located between the seminiferous tubules and are responsible for producing testosterone. Sertoli cells are found in the seminiferous tubules and are involved in the nourishment and maturation of sperm cells.

Seminal Fluid:

The seminal vesicles produce a mucus-like fluid that contains the sugar fructose which provides energy for the sperm. The prostate gland and Cowper's gland also secrete mucus-like fluids, as well as an alkaline fluid to neutralize the acids from urine in the urethra. The combination of sperm cells and fluids is called semen.

Order of Structures through which Sperm Passes:

Seminiferous tubules, epididymis, ductus deferens, ejaculatory duct, urethra.

Significance of the Acrosome of the Sperm:

The acrosome of the sperm contains enzymes that enable it to penetrate the outer layer of the egg during fertilization.

Glands that Contribute Fluids to Semen and What Each Contributes:

The seminal vesicles contribute fructose and fluid to semen. The prostate gland contributes alkaline and mucoid fluids to semen. The Cowper's gland also contributes alkaline and mucoid fluids to semen.

Female Reproductive System:

The female reproductive system produces eggs and provides an environment for fertilization, the development of a fetus, and the birth of a baby. The two female gonads, or ovaries, produce a limited number of gametes. Most of the female reproductive system is located inside the body.

FYI:

In some men, erectile tissue does not expand enough to cause an erection. This condition is known as erectile dysfunction or impotence. The drug sildenafil (Viagra™) can help with this condition. Several hundred million sperm cells may be released in a single ejaculation. Sperm cells make up about 1 percent of the total volume of semen released in an ejaculation. )


Reply to this message with the source name and all the text in the bracket is the source itself that you will use to answer questions

Source Name: Page #482. Page #482: (

The Female Reproductive System

The female reproductive system is located within the body. Figure 14.4 shows the main structures of the female reproductive system. Refer to this figure as you read the following paragraphs. Table 14.3 on page 484 summarizes the functions of the female reproductive organs.

The Ovaries

The two ovaries are suspended by ligaments within the abdominal cavity. The ovaries are the site of oogenesis— the production of an ovum. Each month, a single follicle matures and then ruptures, releasing the ovum into the oviduct. This event is called ovulation. Thread-like projections called fimbriae continually sweep over the ovary. When an ovum is released, it is swept by the fimbriae into a cilia-lined tube about 10 cm long called an oviduct. The oviduct carries the ovum from the ovary to the uterus. Within the oviduct, the beating cilia create a current that moves the ovum toward the uterus.

The mature ovum is a non-motile, sphere-shaped cell approximately 0.1 mm in diameter, containing a large quantity of cytoplasm, which contains nutrients for the first days of development after fertilization. The ovum is encased in a thick membrane, which must be penetrated by a sperm cell before fertilization can take place.

The Uterus and Vagina

The uterus is a muscular organ that holds and nourishes a developing fetus. The uterus is normally about the size and shape of a pear, but it expands to many times its original size during pregnancy. The cervix is the narrow opening at the bottom of the uterus. The vagina is a muscular tube that extends from the cervix to the outside of the body. The vagina is both the organ of sexual intercourse and the birth canal.

FYI
The two oviducts are commonly called Fallopian tubes in honour of the Italian anatomist Gabriele Falloppio (1523–1562), who described their structure. Falloppio compared their shape with the shape of a trumpet. )
Reply to this message with the source name and all the text in the bracket is the source itself that you will use to answer questions.

Source Name: Page #483. Page #483: (
Female Reproductive System

The uterus is a hollow, muscular organ that increases in size as the fetus develops. The lining of the uterus, called the endometrium, is richly supplied with blood vessels to provide nutrients for the fetus. At its upper end, the uterus connects to the oviducts. At its base, the uterus forms a narrow opening called the cervix. The cervix, in turn, connects to the vagina, which serves as an entrance for the erect penis to deposit sperm.

Investigation 14.A: Examining Gonads and Gametes

Testicles and ovaries serve the same two basic purposes: the production of gametes and the release of sex hormones. In this investigation, you will use a microscope to examine and compare testicular and ovarian tissues.

Procedure:

Part 1: Testicular Tissue

Mount the prepared slide of testicular tissue on the microscope stage.
Under low power, examine the specimen. Look for several circular structures. These are the seminiferous tubules.
Draw and label a diagram of the specimen as it appears under low power.
Switch to medium and then high power to examine one seminiferous tubule. Try to identify developing sperm cells, mature sperm cells, and interstitial cells.
Draw and label a diagram of the specimen as it appears under high power.
Part 2: Ovarian Tissue

Mount the prepared slide of ovarian tissue on the microscope stage.
Under low power, examine the specimen. Look for developing follicles near the outer edge of the ovary. Try to identify immature ova within the developing follicles.
A mature follicle will appear as a large, fluid-filled structure that contains an ovum. How many mature follicles can you find in the specimen?
Create and label a diagram of the specimen as it appears under low power.
Switch to medium and then high power to examine a mature follicle with an ovum.
Draw and label a diagram of the specimen as it appears under high power.
Analysis:

How does the number of sperm cells that are visible in the testicular tissue specimen compare with the number of ova that are visible in the ovarian tissue specimen?
How does the size of the sperm cells in the testicular tissue specimen compare with the size of the ova in the ovarian tissue specimen?
Conclusion:
3. Explain how the differences in the size and quantity of the gametes in the male and female gonads contribute to their reproductive functions. )


Reply to this message with the source name and all the text in bracket is the source itself that you will use to answer questions.

Source Name: Page #484. Page #484: (
Table 14.3 Functions of the Female Reproductive Organs

Ovaries: produce eggs and sex hormones
Fimbriae: sweep an egg into an oviduct
Oviducts: conduct an egg from the ovary to the uterus; (Fallopian tubes) place where fertilization occurs
Uterus (womb): houses the developing fetus
Cervix: opening to the uterus
Vagina: receives the penis during sexual intercourse; serves as the birth canal and as the exit for menstrual flow
The ovum survives in the oviduct for up to 24 hours after ovulation. If a living egg encounters sperm in the oviduct, fertilization may take place. The fertilized egg, now called a zygote, continues to move through the oviduct for several days before reaching the uterus. During this time, the endometrium thickens as it prepares to receive the zygote. The zygote implants itself in the endometrium, and development of the embryo begins. If the egg is not fertilized, it does not implant in the endometrium. The endometrium disintegrates, and its tissues and blood flow out the vagina in a process known as menstruation.

The vagina opens into the female external genital organs, known together as the vulva. The vulva includes the labia majora and labia minora, which are two pairs of skin folds that protect the vaginal opening. The vulva also includes the glans clitoris. Like the penis, the glans clitoris becomes erect during sexual arousal.

Differences between Sperm Cells and Egg Cells

In Investigation 14.A, you studied some of the visible differences between sperm cells and egg cells. These gametes differ in many other significant ways, some of which are outlined in Table 14.4. All of these differences relate to the biological function of uniting one gamete from each parent to create the single cell that will develop to become a new person.

Section 14.1 Summary

Fertilization takes place when a sperm cell, the male gamete, fuses with an ovum, the female gamete. This event follows from reproductive processes that take place within the bodies of the male and female parent.
The male reproductive system is adapted to produce and release large quantities of motile sperm cells.
Sperm production begins in the seminiferous tubules of the testes. Developing sperm are transported into the epididymis for maturation and storage.
During sexual arousal, sperm move into the ductus deferens.
Sperm are mixed with fluids from a series of glands to create semen. Semen is carried through the penis and released into the female reproductive tract.
The female reproductive system is adapted to produce and release small numbers of ova.
Ova are produced in follicles within the ovary.
Each month a single ovum is released and is carried through the oviduct. If the egg encounters sperm in the oviduct, it may)



Here are the Sources (Pages #485-489) Only reply to this message with the source names I have provided in this message.    

Reply to this message with the source name and all the text in the bracket is the source itself that you will use to answer questions.

Source Name: Page #485. Page #485: (

Section 14.1 Review: Comparing Sperm Cells and Egg Cells

Table 14.4 Comparing Sperm Cells and Egg Cells

Criterion for
comparison Sperm cell Egg cell

size The head is about 5 μm long. The middle piece is about
5 μm long. The flagellum is about 40 μm long.

energy Before ejaculation, the mitochondria process fat to provide
reserves energy. After ejaculation, the mitochondria process
fructose (a sugar) in seminal fluid to provide energy.
Inside a woman’s body, sperm can live for three to five days.

mitochondria The middle piece of a sperm cell contains about 50 to
100 mitochondria, which supply ATP to provide energy
for movement.

numbers Sperm are continuously produced. About 300 to 500
produced million sperm are produced each day in a male’s lifetime.

An egg cell is about 100 μm in diameter.

An egg can only live for about one day if it is not fertilized.
If it is fertilized, it will implant in the endometrium,
which serves as an energy source.

The cytoplasm of an egg cell contains about 140 000
mitochondria.

At puberty, each ovary contains 300 000 to 400 000 egg-
forming structures (follicles). Usually, one egg is released
from one of the ovaries each month.

motility Sperm are motile. A sperm cell has an undulating tail
(flagellum) that enables it to swim in fluid media.

outer The sperm head has a cap called an acrosome, which
structures contains enzymes that help the sperm enter an egg.

Eggs are not motile. They have no structures to propel
themselves.

An egg is covered by a specialized outer coating which, in
most cases, can only be penetrated by sperm of the same
species.

Section 14.1 Review

1. What are the two main purposes of the gonads in both
males and females?
2. For each of the following structures, write a short
description to indicate whether it is found in the male or
female reproductive system and to summarize its function:
a) fimbriae c) endometrium
b) ductus deferens d) epididymis

3. List the organs and glands that contribute to the
components of semen.

4. Which structures contribute to the movement of the
ovum from the ovary to the uterus?

5. Draw a labelled diagram to describe the pathway of
a sperm cell through the male reproductive system,
beginning from the testes.

6. Identify the labelled structures in the following image.

A

B

7. Briefly describe the structures of a sperm cell and an
ovum. How does the structure of each cell relate to its
function?
8. A man who is having difficulty conceiving children with
his wife is advised by his doctor to wear looser pants.
How could a change in clothing make a difference to
this man’s reproductive system?)

Reply to this message with the source name and all the text in the bracket is the source itself that you will use to answer questions.

Source Name: Page #486. Page #486: (SECTION 14.2 The Effect of Sexually Transmitted Infections on the Reproductive Systems

Sexual intercourse involves close physical contact and the exchange of body fluids. For this reason, sexual intercourse can transmit infections from one person to another. An infection that is transmitted only or mainly by sexual contact is generally known as a sexually transmitted infection, or STI.

STIs may be caused by viruses, bacteria, and parasites. STIs of greatest concern are those caused by viruses and bacteria. The most common viral STIs are HIV/AIDS, hepatitis, genital herpes, and human papilloma virus (HPV). The most common bacterial STIs are chlamydia, gonorrhea, and syphilis.

HIV/AIDS

The acronym AIDS stands for acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. AIDS is caused by a group of related viruses that are collectively called human immunodeficiency virus, or HIV. HIV attacks a particular form of white blood cell known as helper T cells, which form part of the immune system. As the level of helper T cells in the blood decreases, the infected person becomes more vulnerable to infections that may lead to sickness and death in people who are diagnosed with acute AIDS.

HIV is transmitted through sexual contact with an infected person. HIV can also be transmitted among intravenous drug users who share needles. Children of mothers who are infected with HIV may themselves be infected before or during birth or through breastfeeding.

Hepatitis

The group of diseases known as hepatitis includes three types of viral infections: hepatitis A, B, and C. Hepatitis A is usually contracted by drinking water that is contaminated with fecal material. As well, it can be transmitted through oral or anal contact. Hepatitis B is spread in a similar way to HIV, through the exchange of body fluids, including sexual contact. Hepatitis C is transmitted mainly through contact with infected blood.

According to the Centre for Infectious Disease Prevention and Control, between 1985 and 2004, approximately 57,000 people in Canada tested positive for HIV infection. About 20,000 of these people have developed full-blown AIDS, and more than 13,000 have died.)

Reply to this message with the source name and all the text in the bracket is the source itself that you will use to answer questions.

Source Name: Page #487. Page #487: (
Sexually Transmitted Infections: Hepatitis B and Genital Herpes

Hepatitis B and C:

Hepatitis B is transmitted in the same way as HIV—through sexual contact or through other contact with infected body fluids or blood. For this reason, hepatitis B is considered to be an STI. Hepatitis C is transmitted through blood-to-blood contact with infected needles or syringes.

Each year, about 3000 Canadians are diagnosed with hepatitis B. Symptoms of the initial infection are flu-like, including fever, headache, nausea, loss of appetite, and abdominal pain. The skin of an infected person may become yellowish, a condition known as jaundice. A hepatitis B infection can progress to cause infection of the liver, leading to liver failure, liver cancer, and even death. Hepatitis viruses can cross the placenta to infect an unborn child. Some people recover completely, while others become asymptomatic carriers that can still infect other people with the virus.

Effective and safe vaccines for hepatitis A and B are available. The hepatitis B vaccine is administered routinely to babies in Canada, and physicians recommend vaccination for people who work in the health system and for people whose lifestyles put them at risk of infection.

Genital Herpes:

Genital herpes is an extremely common viral STI, caused by one of two herpes viruses: herpes simplex 1 (HSV 1) or herpes simplex 2 (HSV 2). HSV 2 is more likely to be acquired through genital contact, causing genital herpes. Once someone is infected with herpes, the symptoms usually appear within a month. The symptoms vary widely among individuals, including tingling, itching, and blisters, which can appear anywhere on the body, but most commonly on the genitals, buttocks, and thighs. After the initial outbreak, the blisters may recur with varying frequency or not at all, triggered by fever, stress, sunlight, intercourse, or certain foods.

Genital herpes means an increased risk of HIV infection and transmission from an infected mother to her baby during birth, causing blindness, neurological disorders, and even death. The Canadian health system does not maintain statistics on rates of herpes infection, but researchers estimate that almost one in three sexually active people in Canada has genital herpes, and this number is rising. Despite over 20 years of research, a successful vaccine remains elusive.

FYI:

The herpes simplex viruses are closely related to the viruses that cause chicken pox and mononucleosis.
Figure 14.7 is a photomicrograph of the herpes virus infecting a cell.
)

Reply to this message with the source name and all the text in the bracket is the source itself that you will use to answer questions.

Source Name: Page #488. Page #488: (
Sexually Transmitted Infections

Genital Herpes
There is no cure for herpes. Once infected, an individual carries the virus for life and may infect others at any time. Although the risk of passing on genital herpes is greatest when the carrier has an active sore, the disease can be transmitted even when no sores are visible. Antiviral medication can help to control and diminish the severity of outbreaks. Researchers are also working to develop a herpes vaccine.

Caesarean Section
Physicians usually recommend that mothers who have genital herpes give birth by Caesarean section to reduce the risk to her baby. (A Caesarean section is a surgical procedure in which a physician delivers the baby through an incision made in the abdomen and uterus.)

Human Papilloma Virus (HPV)
The group of viruses known as human papilloma virus (HPV) is responsible for a condition known as genital warts. Like herpes, HPV infection is very common in North America. It is transmitted by skin-to-skin contact. (See Figure 14.8.)
Many people who are infected with HPV develop flat or raised warts around the genital area. Many others, however, show no symptoms. Because the direct symptoms of an HPV infection are not always obvious, many people carry the virus without knowing it. This is a health concern because HPV can lead to more serious disorders. Some forms of HPV are linked to cervical cancer in women. As well, HPV increases the risk of tumours of the vulva, vagina, anus, and penis.

Chlamydia
Chlamydia is a potentially dangerous infection caused by the bacterium Chlamydia trachomatis. It is the most common bacterial STI in Canada, with more than 55 000 new cases reported each year. As shown in Figure 14.9, people between the ages of 15 and 24 account for the majority of new cases. The rate of infection in young women is more than twice the rate in young men.
After infection with chlamydia, some people experience symptoms immediately. The symptoms may include a discharge from the penis or vagina, a burning pain while urinating, or a fever. One of the greatest dangers of chlamydia is that up to 75 percent of infected people have no obvious symptoms. These people may unknowingly pass the infection on to others, and the disease may cause serious health problems if left untreated.
)


Reply to this message with the source name and all the text in the bracket is the source itself that you will use to answer questions.

Source Name: Page #489. Page #489: (
Chlamydia, Gonorrhea, and Syphilis: Bacterial STIs

Chlamydia

Chlamydia is the most common bacterial sexually transmitted infection (STI) in Canada. It is caused by the bacterium Chlamydia trachomatis. Chlamydia is particularly common among young people, with rates of infection highest in those aged 15 to 24 years. The bacterium can infect the urethra, cervix, rectum, and throat.

In many cases, chlamydia causes no symptoms. When symptoms do occur, they may include pain when urinating, discharge from the penis or vagina, and pain or bleeding during sex. If left untreated, chlamydia can lead to serious health problems. People with chlamydia can spread the infection to others, and they may be unaware of the damage that is occurring within their own bodies.

In women, if the infection is not detected, it can spread to the cervix and the oviducts. This, in turn, can lead to pelvic inflammatory disease (PID). PID is painful and can result in a build-up of scar tissue in the oviducts. The oviducts may become fully blocked, causing infertility. Infection of the cervix can result in open sores that increase the risk of acquiring HIV. A baby who comes in contact with chlamydia during birth can develop infections of the eyes and respiratory tract. Fortunately, there are effective tests for chlamydia. If an infection is diagnosed early enough, treatment with antibiotics can lead to a complete cure with no permanent effects.

Gonorrhea

Gonorrhea is the second most widespread bacterial STI in Canada. Some of the effects of gonorrhea are similar to the effects of other bacterial infections, such as chlamydia. In fact, the two infections are often found together. In contrast to chlamydia, however, the reported rate of infection is almost twice as high in men as in women. As shown in Figure 14.10, young people have the highest risk of contracting gonorrhea.

Gonorrhea is caused by the bacterium Neisseria gonorrhoeae. It can cause infection of the urethra, cervix, rectum, and throat. The infection often causes pain when urinating and a thick greenish-yellow discharge from the urethra. As with chlamydia, some people experience no initial symptoms. Left untreated, the disease can lead to PID and may spread through the bloodstream to the joints, heart, or brain. A baby who comes in contact with gonorrhea in the birth canal can develop a serious eye infection. Physicians routinely give eye drops to newborns to prevent this.

Like chlamydia, gonorrhea can be successfully treated with antibiotics. Although many strains of the bacterium are becoming resistant to traditional antibiotics such as penicillin, alternative antibiotics remain effective.

Syphilis

Syphilis is the least common of the three bacterial STIs. Until very recently, health practitioners thought that eliminating syphilis completely in Canada would be possible. Unfortunately, the rate of syphilis infection has increased sharply in Canada since 1997 (see Figure 14.11).

Syphilis is an infection caused by the bacterium Treponema pallidum. Syphilis proceeds in three stages, with each stage separated by a period of latency. During the first stage, infectious ulcerated sores called chancres (pronounced “shan-kers”)
)




Here are the Sources (Pages #490-493) Only reply to this message with the source names I have provided in this message.     

Reply to this message with the source name and all the text in the bracket is the source itself that you will use to answer questions.

Source Name: Page #490. Page #490: (
Syphilis

Syphilis is a bacterial infection that is
transmitted through sexual contact. The
bacteria cause a range of symptoms that
appear in distinct stages.

During the first stage, a painless sore
called a chancre appears at the site of
infection. The sore may occur anywhere on
the skin, but it generally appears on the
palms of the hands and the soles of the feet.
Any contact with the infected person may
spread the infection.

During the second stage, a rash
develops. The rash may occur anywhere on
the skin and is usually accompanied by
fever, swollen lymph glands, and fatigue.
The rash may last several weeks and then
disappear.

During the third stage, the infection
begins to affect the cardiovascular and
nervous systems. An infected person may
become mentally ill, blind, or lame, and
may develop heart disease. Large,
destructive ulcers called gummas may
develop on the skin or internal organs.
During any stage, syphilitic bacteria
can infect a developing embryo, causing
birth defects or stillbirth.

If the disease is not treated early, the
bacteria can cause permanent damage.
Fortunately, syphilis is readily diagnosed
and can be treated effectively with
antibiotics, including penicillin. Health
professionals are concerned, however,
that both risky sexual behaviour and lack
of awareness are contributing to new
regional outbreaks of syphilis.

Table 14.5 Preventing Transmission of STIs
Way to prevent transmission Description

Abstinence Not engaging in any sexual activity is the only sure protection against all STIs.
Long-term relationships Relationships with the same partner are generally safe if monogamous; however, neither partner has an STI. Some STIs, such as HPV, can be dormant for many years before symptoms appear, however. Many people who have STIs are not aware of their infection.
Condoms Using male or female condoms can reduce but does not eliminate, the risk of STI transmission.
Personal responsibility Safe sexual practices include not using alcohol or drugs, which can impair self-control or personal judgment. Sexual practices that are known to increase the risk of STI transmission include having multiple partners or partners who use intravenous drugs. Any practices that involve contact between the genitals and the mouth or rectum also increase the risk of STI transmission.
Controlling the Spread of STIs in Canada
Many cases of STIs go undiagnosed simply because people are not aware of the significance of their symptoms. When people know the symptoms of STIs, they are more likely to be tested and treated before they infect others. For this reason, health practitioners stress education and awareness programs as an essential part of controlling the spread of STIs. Since many people carry STIs without knowing it, health practitioners also stress the importance of personal responsibility for safe sex practices. Table 14.5 provides some examples of ways that people can protect themselves from STI transmission. STIs can lead to very serious diseases, but they are preventable.

Section 14.2 Summary
• Sexual intercourse can be a way of transmitting infections from one person to another.
• Sexually transmitted infections (STIs) may have a variety of effects, from temporary discomfort to permanent damage of the reproductive system and other body systems. Some STIs can be fatal.
• STIs may be caused by viral and bacterial infection.
• Common viral STIs may be caused by viral and bacterial infection.

• Common viral STIs include HIV/AIDS, hepatitis B, genital herpes, and human papilloma virus (genital warts).

• Common bacterial STIs include chlamydia, gonorrhea, and syphilis. For many of these STIs, young people show the highest rates of infection.

• One of the greatest challenges in controlling the spread of STIs is that many people who are infected show no symptoms. These people may unknowingly pass the infection on to other individuals.

• Education, awareness, and responsible practices are important elements of public health strategies for prevention and treatment of STIs.) 

Reply to this message with the source name and all the text in the bracket is the source itself that you will use to answer questions.

Source Name: Page #491. Page #491: (
STIs: What To Know

Thought Lab and How To Know It

In Canada, the rate of infection for several STIs is highest among teenagers and young adults. In the coming years, many of these people will want to start families. What do young people need to know about how STIs can affect their bodies? What strategy would you design to reach this audience?

Procedure:

In your group, choose one STI that will be the focus of your education program.
Use print and Internet resources to learn about the STI you chose. In particular, find out what effects the STI can have on the male and female reproductive systems.
Organize your findings in a written report. Your report should include the following information:
The cause of the STI
The effects of the STI on the human body and, in particular, the male and female reproductive systems
Why young adults are the age group at greatest risk for acquiring an STI
The issues and challenges involved in preventing and controlling the transmission of the STI
Using the information in your report, develop an education program aimed at young people. Decide on the two or three most important messages. Then decide how you will deliver these messages. For example, you could create print advertisements for a magazine, produce a music video, or write and perform a play. Deliver your presentation to your class.
Section 14.2 Review:

Give two examples of viral STIs and two examples of bacterial STIs.
What is pelvic inflammatory disease, and why is it a concern?
In what ways can a woman who is infected with an STI present a health risk to her baby? Give three examples.
Some people who become infected with an STI may show no symptoms.
a) How does this present a risk to the health of the infected individual?
b) How does this present a public health risk?
Target Skills:

Planning a strategy to communicate effectively information about sexually transmitted infections to a teenage audience
Working cooperatively to research and communicate findings about damage to the reproductive systems caused by STIs
Analysis:

Which STIs are most likely to disrupt the function of the human reproductive system?
Which STIs are most likely to cause permanent damage to the human reproductive system?
Which education program do you think was the most effective? What made it effective?
What do you think are the most serious challenges for health practitioners who want to reach young people in Canada? What could be done to meet these challenges?
Extension:
5. Some strategies to control the spread of STIs raise social and ethical issues. For example, some people argue that people should be able to test themselves for STIs in the privacy of their own homes. Other people believe that tests should always be conducted in a health clinic so that the results can be recorded. Working with a partner, choose an ethical issue associated with STIs. Prepare a short debate to argue both sides of the issue. What did you conclude?

A friend says to you, "viral STIs are always more serious than bacterial STIs, because they are not curable." How would you respond? Include specific examples to support your argument.
Programs that are designed to teach young people about STIs are often controversial. Many people believe that young people should be taught to abstain entirely from sexual contact. Other people believe that young people should be taught about safe sex practices.
a) List two arguments that could be made on each side of this issue.
b) Is it possible for health practitioners to design education campaigns that respect both views? Explain your ideas in an editorial. ICT 
)

Reply to this message with the source name and all the text in the bracket is the source itself that you will use to answer questions.

Source Name: Page #492. Page #492: (
Section: Hormonal Regulation of the Reproductive System (14.3)

Section Outcomes:

Identify the main reproductive hormones and describe how they interact.
Explain the role of sex hormones in the development and regulation of primary and secondary sex characteristics.
Analyze blood hormone data and associated physiological events.
Research and assess the medical use of reproductive hormones in humans.
Key Terms:

Chromosomal sex
Puberty
Gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH)
Follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH)
Luteinizing hormone (LH)
Testosterone
Inhibin
Andropause
Estrogen
Progesterone
Menstrual cycle
Corpus luteum
Follicular stage
Luteal stage
Menopause
Hormone replacement therapy (HRT)
Figure 14.12: The cells of this four-week-old human are already programmed with a genetic sex. The primary sex characteristics of this embryo, however, will not be evident for several more weeks.

The chromosomal sex, or genetic sex, of an individual is determined at fertilization. An embryo that carries the sex chromosome combination XY is genetically male. An embryo that carries the sex chromosome combination XX is genetically female.

Until about the seventh week of development, male and female embryos are anatomically identical. After this time, the presence or absence of specific hormones determines which sex organs develop, when the sex organs mature, and how they function. Many of the same reproductive hormones are at work in both males and females. The interaction of genetic and hormonal factors produces different reproductive systems in each sex.

Table 14.6: Main sex hormones and their effects

Sex Hormones and the Male Reproductive System:

The development of the male sex organs begins before birth.
Embryos that are genetically male have the testis-determining factor (TDF) gene on the Y chromosome, which triggers the production of male sex hormones (androgens).
Androgens initiate the development of male sex organs and ducts in the fetus.
As reproductive structures develop, they migrate within the body to their final locations.
[The text continues on page 493.]
)

Reply to this message with the source name and all the text in the bracket is the source itself that you will use to answer questions.

Source Name: Page #493. Page #493: (
Table 14.6 Summary of Key Reproductive Hormones and Their Functions

Production	Target	Function in male	Function in female	Hormone site	organ(s) reproductive system	reproductive system
GnRH	hypothalamus	stimulates the release of FSH and LH from the anterior pituitary	stimulates the release of FSH and LH from the anterior pituitary			
FSH	anterior pituitary	stimulates the development of the sex organs and gamete production in ovaries and testes	stimulates the development of the sex organs and gamete production in ovaries	seminiferous tubules		
LH	anterior pituitary	stimulates testosterone production in testes	triggers ovulation and stimulates estrogen production (with FSH) in ovaries	interstitial cells		
Estrogen	ovary	stimulates the development of the female reproductive tract and secondary sex characteristics		entire body	minor	
Progesterone	ovary (corpus luteum)	causes uterine thickening		uterus	minor	
Testosterone	testes	stimulates the development of the male reproductive tract and secondary sex characteristics		entire body	minor	
Inhibin	testes (Sertoli cells)	inhibit FSH production	inhibit FSH production	anterior pituitary and hypothalamus		
Development and Maturation of the Male Reproductive System
A boy’s genitalia are visible at birth, but his reproductive system will not be mature until puberty. Puberty is the period in which the reproductive system completes its development and becomes fully functional. Most boys enter puberty between 10 and 13 years of age. At puberty, a series of hormonal events lead to gradual physical changes in the body, including the final development of the sex organs and the development of secondary sex characteristics.

Hormonal Regulation of the Male Reproductive System
From the end of puberty, the male reproductive system is usually capable of producing millions of sperm every hour of the day, seven days a week until death. The same hormones that trigger the events of puberty also regulate the mature male reproductive system over a person’s lifetime. Hormone feedback mechanisms control the process of spermatogenesis and maintain the secondary sexual characteristics. The release of GnRH from the hypothalamus triggers the release of FSH and LH from the anterior pituitary. FSH causes the interstitial cells in the testes to produce sperm, while at the same time, FSH causes cells in the seminiferous tubules to release a hormone called inhibin. Inhibin acts on the anterior pituitary to inhibit the production of FSH, resulting in a negative feedback loop. As the level of FSH drops, the testes
BiologyFile FYI

LH and FSH are produced by both males and females, but they are named for their actions in the female. In the male, LH is sometimes called interstitial cell stimulating hormone (ICSH) because it controls the production of testosterone by interstitial cells. Chemically, however, LH (ICSH) in males is identical to LH in females.
)




Here are the Sources (Pages #494-497) Only reply to this message with the source names I have provided in this message.     

Reply to this message with the source name and all the text in the bracket is the source itself that you will use to answer questions.

Source Name: Page #494. Page #494: (
Hormonal Control of Male Development

Figure 14.13 illustrates a feedback loop that maintains control of the male reproductive system and secondary sex characteristics. Gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) stimulates the anterior pituitary to release luteinizing hormone (LH) and follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH). LH causes the testes to release testosterone, which promotes changes such as muscle development and the formation of facial hair. As well, testosterone acts on the anterior pituitary to inhibit the release of LH. This feedback loop keeps the testosterone level relatively constant in the body.

Reproductive function and secondary sex characteristics both depend on the continued presence of male sex hormones. Substances that interfere with the hormonal feedback system can cause changes in the reproductive system. For example, anabolic steroids mimic the action of testosterone in promoting muscle development. For this reason, some athletes illegally use steroids to increase their speed or strength. Steroids, however, also disrupt the reproductive hormone release feedback systems. The side effects of steroid use in men may include shrinking testicles, low sperm count, loss of body hair, and the development of breasts.

Thought Lab: Testosterone and Male Development

Blood tests of testosterone levels are sometimes used to help diagnose disorders of the male reproductive system, as well as other conditions that affect hormone balance in the body. In this activity, students are asked to plot and analyze blood testosterone data for male children and young adult males.

Procedure:

Examine the data in the table below. Graph these data using the type of graph you think is most appropriate.
Based on the data, at what age does puberty begin? Mark this on your graph.
Use print or Internet resources to research the physiological changes that take place during male puberty. Write a brief description of the changes that are associated with changing levels of testosterone. Identify which of these changes are directly related to reproductive function.
Normal Blood Testosterone Levels in Males:

Age (years): 1 to 7.9; Blood testosterone level (ng/dL): 40
Age (years): 8 to 10.9; Blood testosterone level (ng/dL): 42
Age (years): 11 to 11.9; Blood testosterone level (ng/dL): 260
Age (years): 12 to 13.9; Blood testosterone level (ng/dL): 420
Age (years): 14 to 17.9; Blood testosterone level (ng/dL): 1000
Age (years): 18 to 29; Blood testosterone level (ng/dL): 1100
Analysis:

Is it possible to use blood hormone data to identify the end of puberty? Explain your answer.
In young men, the growth of facial hair begins at the same time as blood testosterone levels start to increase.
a) From this evidence, can you conclude that testosterone causes facial hair growth? Justify your answer.
b) Design an experiment to test the hypothesis that testosterone causes facial hair growth in men.
)

Reply to this message with the source name and all the text in the bracket is the source itself that you will use to answer questions.

Source Name: Page #495. Page #495: (
Aging and the Male Reproductive System

A man in good health can remain fertile for his entire life. However, most men experience a gradual decline in their testosterone level beginning around age 40, a condition called andropause. Some men may experience symptoms such as fatigue, depression, loss of muscle and bone mass, and a drop in sperm production due to the hormonal change. Low doses of testosterone may help to counter the symptoms of andropause. Not all men experience symptoms of andropause, and because the symptoms can vary widely, this condition is difficult to diagnose accurately.

Other hormonal changes associated with aging can also affect the male reproductive system. For example, the prostate gland often begins to grow gradually in men over age 40, leading to discomfort and urinary difficulties as it squeezes on the urethra. Older men have an increased risk of prostate gland cancer, and surgery may be used to provide relief and reduce the cancer risk. Younger men are more prone to developing infections of the prostate, which may cause a burning sensation when urinating or a need to urinate more frequently. Antibiotics are usually prescribed to fight the infection and reduce inflammation.

Sex Hormones and the Female Reproductive System

The development of female sex organs in a genetically female embryo is triggered by specific hormonal factors, and recent research has shown that it is more complex than previously thought. Girls usually begin puberty between the ages of 9 and 13 years. The hypothalamus increases its production of GnRH, which triggers the release of LH and FSH by the anterior pituitary. FSH and LH act on the ovaries to produce estrogen and progesterone, which stimulate the development of female secondary sex characteristics and launch a reproductive cycle that will continue until middle age.

Hormonal Regulation of the Female Reproductive System

In humans, female reproductive function follows a cyclical pattern known as the menstrual cycle, usually about 28 days long. The menstrual cycle ensures that an ovum is released at the same time as the uterus is most receptive to a fertilized egg. FSH and LH stimulate the ovaries to produce estrogen and progesterone, which control the menstrual cycle.

BiologyFile Try This

Copy an outline of Figure into your notebook, 14.13 including the labels. Add plus signs (+) and negative signs (–) beside the arrows to show which hormones have a stimulating action and which have an inhibitory action.

Web Link

Testosterone may be prescribed by a licensed physician for specific medical conditions and treatments. However, it may also be used illegally in synthetic form as an anabolic steroid by people looking for a fast, easy way to build muscle mass, reduce fat, and improve endurance. The legal and illegal uses of testosterone differ, and there are risks associated with its use.

Chapter 14: The Continuance of Human Life - MHR 495
)

Reply to this message with the source name and all the text in the bracket is the source itself that you will use to answer questions.

Source Name: Page #496. Page #496: (
BiologyFile - Page 496

The Ovarian Cycle

The ovary contains cellular structures called follicles. Each follicle contains a single immature ovum.
During a single ovarian cycle, one follicle matures, releases an ovum, and then develops into a yellowish, gland-like structure known as a corpus luteum. The corpus luteum then degenerates.
The term corpus luteum comes from two Latin words that mean “yellow body.” The term follicle comes from a Latin word that means “small.”
The Uterine Cycle

The uterus prepares for the arrival of a fertilized ovum in a series of cyclic events known as the uterine cycle.
Both the ovarian and uterine cycles are controlled by the female sex hormones estrogen and progesterone, which are produced by the ovaries.
Figure 14.14

A follicle matures by growing layers of follicular cells and a central fluid-filled vesicle. The vesicle contains the maturing ovum.
At ovulation, the follicle ruptures, and the ovum is released into the oviduct.
The follicle develops into a corpus luteum.
If pregnancy does not occur, the corpus luteum starts to degenerate after about 10 days.
Note that the follicle does not migrate around the ovary, as shown here for clarity, but goes through all the stages in one place.
Figure 14.15

The hypothalamus produces GnRH, which stimulates the anterior pituitary to produce FSH and LH.
FSH stimulates the follicle to produce estrogen.
LH stimulates the corpus luteum to produce progesterone.
Developing follicles produce estrogen and some progesterone.
Ovulation: mature follicle releases ovum.
The corpus luteum produces progesterone and some estrogen.
The arrows in the figure can be labeled with plus signs (+) and negative signs (–) to show which hormones have a stimulating action and which have an inhibitory action.
)

Reply to this message with the source name and all the text in the bracket is the source itself that you will use to answer questions.

Source Name: Page #497. Page #497: (
The Ovarian Cycle

Figure 14.14 illustrates the ovarian cycle, and Figure 14.15 illustrates the hormone systems that control this cycle. The ovarian cycle can be roughly divided into two stages: the follicular stage and the luteal stage.

Follicular Stage:

FSH released by the anterior pituitary gland stimulates one follicle to mature.
As the follicle matures, it releases estrogen and some progesterone.
Rising estrogen levels inhibit FSH release from the anterior pituitary gland.
High estrogen levels trigger a sudden release of GnRH from the hypothalamus, leading to a sharp increase in LH production by the anterior pituitary, which triggers ovulation (follicle bursts, releasing its ovum).
Luteal Stage:

LH causes the follicle to develop into a corpus luteum.
Corpus luteum secretes progesterone and some estrogen.
Rising progesterone and estrogen levels inhibit FSH and LH production.
Corpus luteum degenerates, leading to a decrease in estrogen and progesterone levels.
Low levels of sex hormones cause the anterior pituitary to increase its secretion of FSH, and the cycle begins again.
If the ovum is fertilized and implants in the endometrium, blood hormone levels of progesterone and estrogen remain high under stimulus of hCG released by embryo-supporting membranes. The continued presence of progesterone maintains the endometrium to support the developing fetus. The continued presence of estrogen stops the ovarian cycle so no additional follicles mature.

Thought Lab: Development of the Corpus Luteum

In this activity, you will identify the structures that remain constant and the structures that change in the ovary.
Some structures in the ovary remain fairly constant throughout a female’s lifetime, while others develop, change, and disappear through each menstrual cycle.
Procedure:
Copy the outline of an ovary into your science notebook.
Sketch and label the following structures in your diagram: immature follicle, ovum, developing follicle, mature corpus luteum, mature follicle, disintegrating corpus luteum.
Identify which structures would be visible in the ovary of a woman who was just beginning her menstrual period.
Analysis:
Explain where you would look to find the corpus luteum in a tissue sample, and why.
Discuss the adaptive advantage of having reproductive function regulated by a gland that develops and disappears within a few weeks.
Extension:
3. Use appropriate presentation software or develop and write your own code to demonstrate the development and disintegration of the corpus luteum within the ovary. ICT.
)



Here are the Sources (Pages #498-501) Only reply to this message with the source names I have provided in this message.     

Reply to this message with the source name and all the text in the bracket is the source itself that you will use to answer questions.

Source Name: Page #498. Page #498: (
The Menstrual Cycle

The menstrual cycles of individual women differ widely in their length and timing. When women live together, however, their menstrual cycles tend to synchronize. The significance of the menstrual cycle is for the preparation of the female reproductive system for pregnancy.

The Ovarian Cycle
The ovarian cycle has two stages: the follicular phase and the luteal phase.

Follicular phase: The follicle in the ovary matures and releases estrogen into the bloodstream, which stimulates the thickening of the endometrium.
Luteal phase: The ruptured follicle transforms into the corpus luteum, which secretes progesterone that further thickens the endometrium.
The Function of Corpus Luteum
The corpus luteum produces progesterone that thickens the endometrium.

The Uterine Cycle
The uterine cycle is closely linked to the ovarian cycle. Ovulation takes place about halfway through the ovarian cycle, around day 14. If fertilization occurs, the fertilized egg completes the passage through the oviduct and arrives at the uterus a few days later. The timing of the uterine cycle ensures that the uterus is prepared to receive and nurture a new life. The events of the uterine cycle cause a build-up of blood vessels and tissues in the endometrium. If fertilization does not occur, the endometrium disintegrates and menstruation begins.

The uterine cycle begins on the first day of menstruation (which is also the first day of the ovarian cycle). The estrogen level in the blood gradually increases, causing the endometrium to begin thickening. After ovulation, the corpus luteum secretes progesterone, causing a more rapid thickening of the endometrium. If fertilization does not occur, the corpus luteum degenerates, the endometrium breaks down, and menstruation begins again.

Difference Between the Uterine Cycle and the Ovarian Cycle
The ovarian cycle takes place in the ovary and involves the maturation of the follicle and the release of the ovum, while the uterine cycle takes place in the uterus and involves the thickening of the endometrium and the shedding of the endometrial lining during menstruation.

Aging and the Menstrual Cycle
The number of functioning follicles in the female reproductive system decreases with age, leading to a gradual overall decline in the amount of estrogen and progesterone in the blood. Menopause is the end of the menstrual cycle, which usually occurs around the age of 50 in North American women. Hormone replacement therapy (HRT) is a prescription of low levels of estrogen with or without progesterone that can ease some menopause symptoms, but it is associated with risks such as increased risk of uterine cancer, breast cancer, and heart disease.

)

Reply to this message with the source name and all the text in the bracket is the source itself that you will use to answer questions.

Source Name: Page #499. Page #499: (
Section 14.3 Summary: Sex Hormones and Reproduction

• Sex hormones work to stimulate the development of male and female reproductive systems and regulate the function of the mature reproductive system.
• In males, the main sex hormone is testosterone. In females, the main sex hormones are estrogen and progesterone.
• In addition to their effect on the reproductive system, the sex hormones act throughout the body to cause the development of secondary sex characteristics.
• In the male reproductive system, a negative feedback hormone system maintains a relatively constant level of sperm production and testosterone.
• In females, hormone systems interact to regulate a monthly menstrual cycle. The menstrual cycle combines events in the ovary and in the uterus to maximize the chance of a zygote successfully implanting in the uterus for development into a fetus.

Thought Lab 14.4 Therapy Options for Menopause

For many years, doctors in North America routinely prescribed estrogen, or a combination of estrogen and progesterone, to help alleviate the symptoms of menopause. In 2000, the U.S.-based National Institutes of Health began a detailed investigation of the effects of hormone replacement therapy (HRT). Researchers stopped the study several years early, however, when they found that HRT was associated with a significant increase in the risk of strokes, heart disease, and breast cancer among their test subjects. The findings led scientists to look for a safer alternative to HRT.

• Human babies are born with complete but immature reproductive systems. At puberty, an increase in production of GnRH by the hypothalamus stimulates the release of FSH and LH in the anterior pituitary. These hormones, in turn, trigger the development of gametes and the release of sex hormones.
• Hormone replacement therapy has been linked to an increased risk of coronary heart disease, strokes, and blood clots, an increased risk of breast cancer and colorectal cancer, and an increased risk of dementia.
• For this reason, Health Canada advises that a woman should not begin hormone replacement therapy without a thorough medical evaluation and a careful assessment of her own particular needs, health, and medical history. In some cases, the benefits of the therapy may outweigh the risks. In other cases, the reverse is true. Scientists continue to search for other ways to alleviate the symptoms and long-term health effects of menopause.

Target Skills: Identifying physiological and ethical concerns about the medical use of reproductive hormones.

Analysis Procedure:

Using print or Internet resources, research two or three different kinds of therapies available to women who want to alleviate the symptoms of menopause.
For each of the therapies you are studying, gather information about how the treatment affects cells and tissues in the body, how the treatment affects hormone feedback systems, and any known health risks and benefits.
Organize the information you have gathered. Create a short report or presentation to summarize and communicate your findings.
Based on your research, is it possible to claim that one of these therapies is better than the others? What, if anything, should health practitioners and pharmaceutical companies have done differently?
)

Reply to this message with the source name and all the text in the bracket is the source itself that you will use to answer questions.

Source Name: Page #500. Page #500: (
INVESTIGATION 14.B Target Skills: The Menstrual Cycle

LH and FSH are pituitary hormones because they are produced by the pituitary gland. Similarly, progesterone and estrogen are ovarian hormones because they are produced in the ovaries. In this investigation, you will see how pituitary and ovarian hormones affect, and are affected by, ovarian and uterine events during the menstrual cycle.

Question:

How do pituitary and ovarian hormones interact with ovarian and uterine events during the menstrual cycle?
Procedure:

Study the graphs, and observe how the levels of hormones affect each other as well as the follicle and endometrium.
Use the Analysis questions to analyze and interpret the graphs.
Analysis:

During which days of the menstrual cycle does the level of FSH increase? What happens to the follicle during this time?
On which day is the level of LH in the bloodstream at its highest? What event occurs immediately after this peak?
What event is associated with the decline of LH in the blood?
During which days of the cycle does the level of estrogen in the blood increase most rapidly? What happens in the uterus during this time?
During which days of the cycle does the level of progesterone in the blood increase most rapidly? What happens in the uterus during this time?
During which days of the cycle are the levels of estrogen and progesterone at their lowest? What happens in the uterus during this time?
Conclusions:
7. How do increased levels of estrogen and progesterone appear to affect the level of FSH in the blood?

Graphing changes in blood hormone levels through a single menstrual cycle
Analyzing blood hormone data and physiological events for a single menstrual cycle
Inferring the roles of female sex hormones
Selecting and using an appropriate mode of representation to communicate ideas and information about sex hormone levels
Do the names of the hormones FSH and LH correspond to their functions? Explain your answer.
Select and use an appropriate mode of representation to compare and contrast the functions of estrogen and progesterone in the menstrual cycle. ICT
At which time in the menstrual cycle is a woman most fertile? Explain your answer.
Additional Text:
S Y D 
)

Reply to this message with the source name and all the text in the bracket is the source itself that you will use to answer questions.

Source Name: Page #501. Page #501: (
Connections Social and Environmental Contexts: Endocrine Disruptors in the Environment

Hormones influence nearly all aspects of the body processes in animals, notably cellular development, growth, and reproduction. Scientists noticed that animals in areas contaminated by pollutants began to exhibit certain types of abnormalities, which led to the question of whether certain pollutants may be linked to endocrine effects on body systems.

Substances that interfere with the normal functions of hormones are called endocrine disruptors, which upset the growth, development, and reproduction of organisms by mimicking natural hormones or blocking their effects. For example, when fish populations are exposed to reproductive endocrine disruptors, young males' sexual organs fail to fully develop, and in extreme cases, males produce eggs, both effects are examples of feminization. Endocrine disruptors that mimic estrogen can cause feminization, while substances that block the action of male reproductive hormones can have feminizing effects.

Endocrine disruptors tend to be diluted in lakes and rivers, making it difficult to assess their impact in the environment. However, scientists have observed effects such as the feminization of fish near sewage discharge sites and impaired reproduction and development of fish near pulp and paper mills. Even treated sewage contains obvious endocrine disruptors such as synthetic estrogen from birth control pills.

Many cosmetics, including some but not all brands of nail polish, contain endocrine-disrupting chemicals in amounts comparable to, and sometimes greater than, hormone levels in the human body. The table shows selected products containing endocrine disruptors such as fire retardants, pesticides, soft plastics, and pulp and paper mill effluent.

Scientists and representatives of industrial manufacturers debate whether these chemicals pose a health risk to humans. Evidence suggests that endocrine disruptors are leading to lower sperm counts, reduced fertility in both men and women, and increased rates of certain types of cancers. Some studies have suggested a link between endocrine disruptors and learning and behavior problems in children. However, direct links between environmental exposure to endocrine disruptors and human health effects have not been established.

To identify and mediate the risks that these chemicals pose to the environment and organisms, continued research that includes the cooperation of industry and financial support of governments is necessary.

Questions:

Should a potential endocrine disruptor be considered “guilty until proven innocent” or “innocent until proven guilty” before being put on the market? Justify your response.

What would you need to know to link a particular substance to specific endocrine disrupting effects in a population, such as unusually high cancer rates?
)







Here are the Sources (Pages #502-505) Only reply to this message with the source names I have provided in this message.     

Section 14.3 Review 
1. 
Distinguish between the following terms: chromosomal sex and reproductive sex.

 2. 
Use a diagram to summarize the hormone interactions that regulate the male reproductive system. ICT

 3.
 Brie.y describe the main hormonal and physiological events of 

a)
 male puberty 

b)
 female puberty 

c) 
the ovarian cycle 

d) 
the uterine cycle



 4. 
Examine the graphs and answer the following questions: 

a) 
Identify the hormones represented by the letters A, B, C, and D. 

b) 
Describe the events that are occurring in the region of the diagram labelled E. 

c) 
Identify what is happening at the region of the diagram labelled F. 

d) 
Describe the events that are occurring in the region of the diagram labelled G. 




# 

( ! 
& 
) 
e) 
Write suitable labels for the regions of the diagram labelled H and I. 

f) 
Write a caption that brie.y and accurately summarizes what is being depicted in this whole diagram.


 5. 
Compare and contrast the effects of testosterone on the male body with the effects of estrogen on the female body. In what ways are these effects similar? In what ways do they differ? ICT

 6. 
How does the menstrual cycle contribute to successful human reproduction? 

7. 
Assuming that all other body systems remain unaffected, what physiological effects would you expect to .nd in an adolescent male whose anterior pituitary produced FSH but not LH? Use a .ow chart or labelled diagram to explain your reasoning. ICT

 8. 
Predict what would happen to testosterone production in the testes in response to an injection of a large amount of testosterone in an adult male. 
)

Reply to this message with the source name and all the text in the bracket is the source itself that you will use to answer questions.

Source Name: Page #502. Page #502: (
Section 14.3 Review

Distinguish between the following terms: chromosomal sex and reproductive sex.

Use a diagram to summarize the hormone interactions that regulate the male reproductive system. ICT

Briefly describe the main hormonal and physiological events of:
a) male puberty
b) female puberty
c) the ovarian cycle
d) the uterine cycle

Examine the graphs and answer the following questions:
a) Identify the hormones represented by the letters A, B, C, and D.
b) Describe the events that are occurring in the region of the diagram labelled E.
c) Identify what is happening at the region of the diagram labelled F.
d) Describe the events that are occurring in the region of the diagram labelled G.
e) Write suitable labels for the regions of the diagram labelled H and I.
f) Write a caption that briefly and accurately summarizes what is being depicted in this whole diagram.

Compare and contrast the effects of testosterone on the male body with the effects of estrogen on the female body. In what ways are these effects similar? In what ways do they differ? ICT

How does the menstrual cycle contribute to successful human reproduction?

Assuming that all other body systems remain unaffected, what physiological effects would you expect to find in an adolescent male whose anterior pituitary produced FSH but not LH? Use a flow chart or labelled diagram to explain your reasoning. ICT

Predict what would happen to testosterone production in the testes in response to an injection of a large amount of testosterone in an adult male.)


Reply to this message with the source name and all the text in the bracket is the source itself that you will use to answer questions.

Source Name: Page #504. Page #504: (
Chapter 14: Understanding Concepts

1. Name the structures within a testis, and describe their functions.
2. In which part of the body are each of the following produced?
a) testosterone
b) progesterone
c) sperm
d) luteinizing hormone
e) follicle stimulating hormone
f) ovum
3. Outline, in the form of a labelled sketch or flow chart, the path of a sperm cell from its formation to the moment it reaches an ovum. In your answer, identify all the male and female structures through which the sperm travels.
4. List three of the components of semen, and briefly explain what these fluids contribute to reproductive function.
5.Construct a table or graphic organizer to compare and contrast the source, common modes of transmission, effects, and treatments for the following sexually transmitted infections.
a) HIV/AIDS
b) hepatitis B
c) genital herpes
d) human papilloma virus
e) chlamydia
f) gonorrhea
g) syphilis
6. 
a) How would a newborn child acquire an infection of chlamydia, gonorrhea, syphilis, and herpes?
b) What effects do these STIs have on infants?
7. What are the health risks and treatment options associated with each of the infections in question 5?
8. Describe the stages of development of a follicle within an ovary.
9. Describe the changes in the endometrium through the stages of the menstrual cycle.
10. Compare the levels of sex hormones in the blood of a female before and after the onset of puberty, and describe how these changes affect the reproductive system.
11. The following graph represents the average blood concentration of four circulating hormones collected from 50 healthy adult women who were not pregnant. Use the graph to answer the following questions:
Y
X
Z
a) Which line represents luteinizing hormone?
b) Which line represents progesterone?
c) Which hormone increases during the last half of the menstrual cycle?
d) Suggest a hormone that the green line might represent.
12. Penicillin is an antibiotic that effectively cures syphilis. Explain why penicillin would be ineffective against AIDS.
13. Describe the effect you would expect to see in a human male whose sperm cells have no acrosome.
14. Do the names “follicle stimulating hormone” and “luteinizing hormone” correspond to their function in the human reproductive system? Give examples to justify your answer.
15. Young female athletes often experience delayed puberty. What would you expect to find if you compare the blood hormone levels of a fourteen-year-old gymnast with those of less athletic girls of the same age?
16. Farmers who maintain stocks of large animals often castrate the males. Based on the hormonal control of the male reproductive system, explain the likely physiological and behavioral effects of castration. What advantages does castration offer to the farmer?
17. A young woman tells her doctor that she is experiencing irregular menstrual periods.
a) Hypothesize some possible causes of the irregularity.
b) Design an investigation that could test for one of these causes.
)

Reply to this message with the source name and all the text in the bracket is the source itself that you will use to answer questions.

Source Name: Page #505. Page #505-506: (
18. a) Two main events of the menstrual cycle are the release of an egg from an ovary and the build-up of the uterine lining. Use the data table to predict which of the hormones A, B, or C would be associated with each of these two events. Assume the cycle length is 28 days.

Relative hormone concentration:
Day of menstrual cycle: A B C
1 12 5 10
5 14 5 14
9 14 5 13
13 70 10 20
17 12 60 9
21 12 150 8
25 8 100 8
1 12 5 10

b) A woman is having difficulty becoming pregnant. For the last month, her hormone levels have been measured on each of the eight days listed in the data table. Hormone A remained steady at 12. Hormone B remained steady at 5. Hormone C had the levels shown in the data table. How could these hormone levels explain her fertility difficulties?

19. Imagine that you are a government official in a health department. In response to pressure from community groups, your department has created a new, $10 million program to fight the spread of STIs. The program includes work in two different areas: education and awareness campaigns; and scientific research on treatment and vaccines. How would you divide the funding between these two program areas? Explain your reasoning.
Making Connections

20. An individual whose chromosomal (genetic) sex is XX has inherited a genetic defect so that cellular receptors for estrogen are lacking.
a) Would you expect this person to have testes or ovaries? Explain why.
b) Can this person respond to estrogen? Why or why not, and what effects will this have on the body?
c) The adrenal cortex produces some testosterone. Is it possible that this person could have the secondary sex characteristics of a male? Explain.
d) Predict whether this individual is fertile and give reasons for your answer.

21. The mortality rate of sperm is high compared to the mortality rate of eggs. Suggest reasons why this might be the case.

22. Chlamydia can be readily cured with antibiotics. Why then are there so many new cases of chlamydia reported each year? Give three reasons.

23. When a woman becomes pregnant, menstruation stops for the duration of the pregnancy.
a) Explain how menstruation is prevented if pregnancy occurs.
b) Explain why menstruation begins again after the pregnancy.

24. Some male athletes take anabolic steroids to enhance their performance. These substances mimic the action of testosterone but are not identical to testosterone. The side effects of steroid use can include changes that might be associated with an increase in sex hormones in the body, such as increased muscular development and aggressiveness. However, side effects can also include changes that might be associated with a decrease in sex hormones, such as the shrinking of testicles and the loss of facial hair. Using hormone feedback systems, explain how a drug that mimics the effect of testosterone could have these apparently contradictory effects on the male body.
)


































Source Name: Data Booklet #02. Data Booklet #02:(
Introduction

Human reproduction employs internal fertilization, and depends on the integrated action of endocrine system, the nervous system, and the reproductive system. Male reproductive organs are the testes, which produce sperm and the male sex hormones. Female reproductive organs are the ovaries, which produce eggs and the female sex hormones.
 

 Read pages 506-543 in Inquiry into Biology

Write notes!

(The notes given here are very brief and to the point, they are meant to assist your understanding of the textbook, not to be your only notes. They are meant to be supplemented by your own notes based on the textbook chapter writings.)

 	
Fertilization, Implantation, and Development

 

 	


from http://www.biosci.uga.edu/almanac/bio_103/notes/apr_11.html.

Fertilization

Fertilization has three functions:

transmission of genes from both parents to offspring
restoration of the diploid number of chromosomes reduced during meiosis
initiation of development in offspring
Steps in Fertilization

Contact between sperm and egg
Entry of sperm into the egg
Fusion of egg and sperm nuclei
Activation of development
Fertilization is the fusion of the sperm and egg and usually occurs in the upper third of the oviduct. Of the several hundred million sperm released in ejaculation, only a few thousand reach the egg and only one sperm will fertilize the egg. When one sperm fuses with receptors on the surface of the secondary oocyte, it triggers a series of chemical changes in the outer oocyte membrane that prevent any other sperm from entering the oocyte. The entry of the sperm initiates Meiosis II in the oocyte. Fusion of the egg and sperm nuclei will form the diploid zygote.
Implantation

The uterine lining becomes enlarged and prepared for implantation of the embryo in the endometrium. Twelve days after fertilization, the endometrium has formed a two-layered chorion. Human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) is secreted by the chorion. It maintains the corpus luteum until the placenta begins to secrete estrogen and progesterone.
Maternal and embryonic structures interlock to form the placenta, the nourishing boundary between the mother's and embryo's circulatory systems. The umbilical cord extends from the placenta to the embryo, and transports food to and wastes from the embryo.

 



 

Development

Cleavage converts a single-celled zygote into a multicelled embryo by mitosis. The blastula is a ball of cells surrounding a fluid-filled cavity, the blastocoel.



from http://www.biosci.uga.edu/almanac/bio_103/notes/apr_15.html.
.

Cleavage converts a single-celled zygote into a multicelled embryo by mitosis. The blastula is a ball of cells surrounding a fluid-filled cavity, the blastocoel.



from Purves et al., Life: The Science of Biology, 4th Edition, by Sinauer Associates (http://www.sinauer.com/) and WH Freeman (http://www.whfreeman.com/), used with permission.
Gastrulation involves a series of cell migrations to positions where they will form the three primary cell layers. Ectoderm forms tissues associated with outer layers: skin, hair, sweat glands, epithelium. The brain and nervous system also develop from the ectoderm. The mesoderm forms structures associated with movement and support: body muscles, cartilage, bone, blood, and all other connective tissues. Reproductive system organs and kidneys form from mesoderm. The endoderm forms tissues and organs associated with the digestive and respiratory systems. Many endocrine Image from W.H. Freeman and Sinauer Associates structures, such as the thyroid and parathyroid glands, are formed by the endoderm. The liver, pancreas, and gall bladder arise from endoderm.

Immediately after gastrulation, the body axis of the embryo begins to appear. Chordates have the cells that will form the nervous system fold into a neural tube which will eventually form the spinal cord. The mesoderm forms the notochord which will eventually form the vertebrae. The mesoderm forms somites, which form segment body parts, such as the muscles of the body wall.


from Purves et al., Life: The Science of Biology, 4th Edition, by Sinauer Associates (http://www.sinauer.com/) and WH Freeman (http://www.whfreeman.com/), used with permission.

Stages of Pregnancy

The period of time from fertilization to birth (usually 9 months) is divided into trimesters, each about three months long. During pregnancy the zygote undergoes 40 to 44 rounds of mitosis, producing an infant containing trillions of specialized cells organized into tissues and organs.

The First Trimester

The three embryonic tissue layers form. Cellular differentiation begins to form organs during the third week. After one month the embryo is 5 mm long and composed mostly of paired somite segments. During the second month most of the major organ systems form, limb buds develop. The embryo becomes a fetus by the seventh week. Beginning the eighth week, the sexually neutral fetus activates gene pathways for sex determination, forming testes in XY fetuses and ovaries in XX fetuses. External genitalia develop.

The Second Trimester

The fetus increases in size during this trimester, and bony parts of the skeleton begin to form. Fetal movements can be felt by the mother.

The Last Trimester

During this trimester the fetus increases in size. Circulatory and respiratory systems mature in preparation for air breathing. Fetal growth during this time uses large parts of its mother's protein and calcium intake. Maternal antibodies pass to the fetus during the last month, conferring temporary immunity.



Parturition or Birth

Hormonal control of the birth process involves the release of oxytocin and prostaglandins, which are stimulated by uterine contractions, which stimulate more hormones that cause more contractions....etc.

Stage 1

The first stage of birth lasts from beginning of contractions to the full (10 cm) dilation of the cervix. Membranes of the amniotic fluid rupture, lubricating the vagina.

Stage 2

Strong uterine contractions of a minute in duration separated by two to three minute intervals propel the fetus down the birth canal. Abdominal muscles relax in synchrony with the uterine contractions.

Stage 3

After delivery of the baby, the umbilical cord is clipped and cut. The placenta (or afterbirth) in expelled through the vagina.


From Inquiry Into Biology

Lactation or Milk Production

Breasts develop the capability for milk secretion about the mid point of pregnancy. Secretion of milk does not occur until delivery, and the action of prolactin. Suckling by the infant causes production of oxytocin to promote release of milk into the ducts emptying into the nipple.
Reproductive Technologies

About 1 in 6 couples is infertile due to physical or physiological conditions preventing gamete production, implantation, or fertilization. Blocked oviducts are the main cause of infertility in females. Low sperm count, low motility, or blocked ducts are the common causes of male infertility.

Hormone therapy can cause increased egg production.
Surgery can open blocked ducts.
In vitro fertilization is a widely used technique to aid infertile couples.)





