Reply to this message with the source name and all the text in the bracket is the source itself that you will use to answer questions.

Source Name: Page #489. Page #489: (
Chlamydia, Gonorrhea, and Syphilis: Bacterial STIs

Chlamydia

Chlamydia is the most common bacterial sexually transmitted infection (STI) in Canada. It is caused by the bacterium Chlamydia trachomatis. Chlamydia is particularly common among young people, with rates of infection highest in those aged 15 to 24 years. The bacterium can infect the urethra, cervix, rectum, and throat.

In many cases, chlamydia causes no symptoms. When symptoms do occur, they may include pain when urinating, discharge from the penis or vagina, and pain or bleeding during sex. If left untreated, chlamydia can lead to serious health problems. People with chlamydia can spread the infection to others, and they may be unaware of the damage that is occurring within their own bodies.

In women, if the infection is not detected, it can spread to the cervix and the oviducts. This, in turn, can lead to pelvic inflammatory disease (PID). PID is painful and can result in a build-up of scar tissue in the oviducts. The oviducts may become fully blocked, causing infertility. Infection of the cervix can result in open sores that increase the risk of acquiring HIV. A baby who comes in contact with chlamydia during birth can develop infections of the eyes and respiratory tract. Fortunately, there are effective tests for chlamydia. If an infection is diagnosed early enough, treatment with antibiotics can lead to a complete cure with no permanent effects.

Gonorrhea

Gonorrhea is the second most widespread bacterial STI in Canada. Some of the effects of gonorrhea are similar to the effects of other bacterial infections, such as chlamydia. In fact, the two infections are often found together. In contrast to chlamydia, however, the reported rate of infection is almost twice as high in men as in women. As shown in Figure 14.10, young people have the highest risk of contracting gonorrhea.

Gonorrhea is caused by the bacterium Neisseria gonorrhoeae. It can cause infection of the urethra, cervix, rectum, and throat. The infection often causes pain when urinating and a thick greenish-yellow discharge from the urethra. As with chlamydia, some people experience no initial symptoms. Left untreated, the disease can lead to PID and may spread through the bloodstream to the joints, heart, or brain. A baby who comes in contact with gonorrhea in the birth canal can develop a serious eye infection. Physicians routinely give eye drops to newborns to prevent this.

Like chlamydia, gonorrhea can be successfully treated with antibiotics. Although many strains of the bacterium are becoming resistant to traditional antibiotics such as penicillin, alternative antibiotics remain effective.

Syphilis

Syphilis is the least common of the three bacterial STIs. Until very recently, health practitioners thought that eliminating syphilis completely in Canada would be possible. Unfortunately, the rate of syphilis infection has increased sharply in Canada since 1997 (see Figure 14.11).

Syphilis is an infection caused by the bacterium Treponema pallidum. Syphilis proceeds in three stages, with each stage separated by a period of latency. During the first stage, infectious ulcerated sores called chancres (pronounced “shan-kers”)
)


