Reply to this message with the source name and all the text in the bracket is the source itself that you will use to answer questions.

Source Name: Page #481. Page #481: (
Male Reproductive System

Relationship among the Structures:

The testes produce sperm and sex hormones. The seminiferous tubules are responsible for the production of sperm. The epididymis is responsible for the maturation and storage of sperm. The ductus deferens conduct and store sperm. The scrotum supports and protects the testes.

Distinguish between Interstitial Cells and Sertoli Cells:

Interstitial cells are located between the seminiferous tubules and are responsible for producing testosterone. Sertoli cells are found in the seminiferous tubules and are involved in the nourishment and maturation of sperm cells.

Seminal Fluid:

The seminal vesicles produce a mucus-like fluid that contains the sugar fructose which provides energy for the sperm. The prostate gland and Cowper's gland also secrete mucus-like fluids, as well as an alkaline fluid to neutralize the acids from urine in the urethra. The combination of sperm cells and fluids is called semen.

Order of Structures through which Sperm Passes:

Seminiferous tubules, epididymis, ductus deferens, ejaculatory duct, urethra.

Significance of the Acrosome of the Sperm:

The acrosome of the sperm contains enzymes that enable it to penetrate the outer layer of the egg during fertilization.

Glands that Contribute Fluids to Semen and What Each Contributes:

The seminal vesicles contribute fructose and fluid to semen. The prostate gland contributes alkaline and mucoid fluids to semen. The Cowper's gland also contributes alkaline and mucoid fluids to semen.

Female Reproductive System:

The female reproductive system produces eggs and provides an environment for fertilization, the development of a fetus, and the birth of a baby. The two female gonads, or ovaries, produce a limited number of gametes. Most of the female reproductive system is located inside the body.

FYI:

In some men, erectile tissue does not expand enough to cause an erection. This condition is known as erectile dysfunction or impotence. The drug sildenafil (Viagra™) can help with this condition. Several hundred million sperm cells may be released in a single ejaculation. Sperm cells make up about 1 percent of the total volume of semen released in an ejaculation. )



