Reply to this message with the source name and all the text in the bracket is the source itself that you will use to answer questions
Source Name: Page #472. Page #472: (
Chapter 14: The Continuance of Human Life

The reproductive system is unique in that its organs and chemical pathways are not all contained within the body of one individual. The interactions between male and female parents, and between mother and fetus, are the basis for the continuance of human life. The reproductive system functions mainly to support the continuation of the species rather than the well-being of an individual.

Chapter 15: Human Development

The human body undergoes significant changes from conception to childhood to adulthood and through the senior years. These changes are regulated by a combination of genetic, endocrine, and environmental factors. Human development is a complex process that involves cell differentiation and the formation of various body systems.

Focussing Questions:

In what ways does a human change from conception to childhood to adulthood, and then through the senior years?
What are the roles of chemical control systems in regulating human reproduction?
How do reproductive technologies challenge the options, assumptions, and beliefs of individuals and society?
Introduction:

The reproductive system is a complex network of organs and chemical pathways that contributes to the continuation of the human species. Unlike other body systems, its organs and chemical pathways are not all contained within the body of one individual. The interactions between male and female parents, and between mother and fetus, are crucial for the survival of the human species. In this unit, you will learn about the structures and processes involved in human sexual reproduction and the development of a new human. Additionally, you will explore some of the social and ethical questions related to the science and technology of human reproduction and development.

Unit PreQuiz:

Visit www.albertabiology.ca for the Unit PreQuiz.)



