Reply to this message with the source name and all the text in the bracket is the source itself that you will use to answer questions.

Source Name: Page #505. Page #505: (
INVESTIGATION 14.B Target Skills: The Menstrual Cycle

LH and FSH are pituitary hormones because they are produced by the pituitary gland. Similarly, progesterone and estrogen are ovarian hormones because they are produced in the ovaries. In this investigation, you will see how pituitary and ovarian hormones affect, and are affected by, ovarian and uterine events during the menstrual cycle.

Question:

How do pituitary and ovarian hormones interact with ovarian and uterine events during the menstrual cycle?
Procedure:

Study the graphs, and observe how the levels of hormones affect each other as well as the follicle and endometrium.
Use the Analysis questions to analyze and interpret the graphs.
Analysis:

During which days of the menstrual cycle does the level of FSH increase? What happens to the follicle during this time?
On which day is the level of LH in the bloodstream at its highest? What event occurs immediately after this peak?
What event is associated with the decline of LH in the blood?
During which days of the cycle does the level of estrogen in the blood increase most rapidly? What happens in the uterus during this time?
During which days of the cycle does the level of progesterone in the blood increase most rapidly? What happens in the uterus during this time?
During which days of the cycle are the levels of estrogen and progesterone at their lowest? What happens in the uterus during this time?
Conclusions:
7. How do increased levels of estrogen and progesterone appear to affect the level of FSH in the blood?

Graphing changes in blood hormone levels through a single menstrual cycle
Analyzing blood hormone data and physiological events for a single menstrual cycle
Inferring the roles of female sex hormones
Selecting and using an appropriate mode of representation to communicate ideas and information about sex hormone levels
Do the names of the hormones FSH and LH correspond to their functions? Explain your answer.
Select and use an appropriate mode of representation to compare and contrast the functions of estrogen and progesterone in the menstrual cycle. ICT
At which time in the menstrual cycle is a woman most fertile? Explain your answer.
Additional Text:
S Y D (
(
(

S
N M E E . S
N E S S
S
S
S

)