Reply to this message with the source name and all the text in the bracket is the source itself that you will use to answer questions

Source Name: Page #482. Page #482: (

The Female Reproductive System

The female reproductive system is located within the body. Figure 14.4 shows the main structures of the female reproductive system. Refer to this figure as you read the following paragraphs. Table 14.3 on page 484 summarizes the functions of the female reproductive organs.

The Ovaries

The two ovaries are suspended by ligaments within the abdominal cavity. The ovaries are the site of oogenesis— the production of an ovum. Each month, a single follicle matures and then ruptures, releasing the ovum into the oviduct. This event is called ovulation. Thread-like projections called fimbriae continually sweep over the ovary. When an ovum is released, it is swept by the fimbriae into a cilia-lined tube about 10 cm long called an oviduct. The oviduct carries the ovum from the ovary to the uterus. Within the oviduct, the beating cilia create a current that moves the ovum toward the uterus.

The mature ovum is a non-motile, sphere-shaped cell approximately 0.1 mm in diameter, containing a large quantity of cytoplasm, which contains nutrients for the first days of development after fertilization. The ovum is encased in a thick membrane, which must be penetrated by a sperm cell before fertilization can take place.

The Uterus and Vagina

The uterus is a muscular organ that holds and nourishes a developing fetus. The uterus is normally about the size and shape of a pear, but it expands to many times its original size during pregnancy. The cervix is the narrow opening at the bottom of the uterus. The vagina is a muscular tube that extends from the cervix to the outside of the body. The vagina is both the organ of sexual intercourse and the birth canal.

FYI
The two oviducts are commonly called Fallopian tubes in honour of the Italian anatomist Gabriele Falloppio (1523–1562), who described their structure. Falloppio compared their shape with the shape of a trumpet. )