Table 14.1 Primary and Secondary Sex Characteristics 

BiologyFile 
FYI 

The term gonad comes from a Greek word that means “procreation.” The term gamete comes from a Greek word that means “marriage,” referring to the union of a sperm and an egg. 

BiologyFile 
FYI 

About 3 percent of all baby boys are born with testes that have not descended properly. This condition can be corrected surgically. 
R R E D D 
S A 
Figure 14.2 Structures of the male reproductive system. Sperm originate in the testes and leave the male body through the penis. The testes and the penis are located outside the body, while most of the other sexual structures are located inside the body. 
Sex Primary sex characteristics 
male  • gonads (testes)  • penis  
• scrotum  • seminal vesicles  
• epididymis  • prostate gland  
• ductus deferens  • Cowper’s gland  
female  • gonads (ovaries) • cervix  
• oviducts  • vagina  
• uterus  • vulva  

gametes) and organs that help to deposit these sperm cells within the female reproductive tract. Some of the male reproductive structures are located outside the body, and others are located inside the body. Figure 14.2 shows the male reproductive system. Refer to this .gure as you read through the following paragraphs. Table 14.2, on page 481, summarizes the functions of the male reproductive organs. 
The Testes 

The two male gonads are called the testes. The testes are held outside the body in a pouch of skin called the scrotum. The scrotum regulates the temperature of 
R 
R 
S 
A 
S 
S N 

Selected secondary sex characteristics (with wide variations among individuals and ethnic groups) 
•
 facial hair • body hair 

• 
deeper voice, broader shoulders, narrower hips, and more obvious muscle development compared with female 

• 
minimal facial hair • minimal body hair 

• 
prominent breasts (compared with male) 

• 
higher voice, more rounded shoulders, wider hips, and less obvious muscle development compared with male 


the testes. Sperm production is most successful at temperatures around 35 °C— that is, a few degrees cooler than normal body temperature. In cold conditions, the scrotum draws close to the body, so the testicles stay warm. In hot conditions, the scrotum holds the testicles more loosely, allowing them to remain cooler than the body. 
As shown in Figure 14.3, the testes 
are composed of long, coiled tubes, 
called seminiferous tubules, as well as 
hormone-secreting cells, called interstitial 
cells, that lie between the seminiferous 
tubules. The interstitial cells secrete 
the male hormone testosterone. The 
seminiferous tubules are where sperm 
E E T D D S S M 





