Reply to this message with the source name and all the text in the bracket is the source itself that you will use to answer questions.

Source Name: Page #488. Page #488: (
Sexually Transmitted Infections

Genital Herpes
There is no cure for herpes. Once infected, an individual carries the virus for life and may infect others at any time. Although the risk of passing on genital herpes is greatest when the carrier has an active sore, the disease can be transmitted even when no sores are visible. Antiviral medication can help to control and diminish the severity of outbreaks. Researchers are also working to develop a herpes vaccine.

Caesarean Section
Physicians usually recommend that mothers who have genital herpes give birth by Caesarean section to reduce the risk to her baby. (A Caesarean section is a surgical procedure in which a physician delivers the baby through an incision made in the abdomen and uterus.)

Human Papilloma Virus (HPV)
The group of viruses known as human papilloma virus (HPV) is responsible for a condition known as genital warts. Like herpes, HPV infection is very common in North America. It is transmitted by skin-to-skin contact. (See Figure 14.8.)
Many people who are infected with HPV develop flat or raised warts around the genital area. Many others, however, show no symptoms. Because the direct symptoms of an HPV infection are not always obvious, many people carry the virus without knowing it. This is a health concern because HPV can lead to more serious disorders. Some forms of HPV are linked to cervical cancer in women. As well, HPV increases the risk of tumours of the vulva, vagina, anus, and penis.

Chlamydia
Chlamydia is a potentially dangerous infection caused by the bacterium Chlamydia trachomatis. It is the most common bacterial STI in Canada, with more than 55 000 new cases reported each year. As shown in Figure 14.9, people between the ages of 15 and 24 account for the majority of new cases. The rate of infection in young women is more than twice the rate in young men.
After infection with chlamydia, some people experience symptoms immediately. The symptoms may include a discharge from the penis or vagina, a burning pain while urinating, or a fever. One of the greatest dangers of chlamydia is that up to 75 percent of infected people have no obvious symptoms. These people may unknowingly pass the infection on to others, and the disease may cause serious health problems if left untreated.
)