Reply to this message with the source name and all the text in the bracket is the source itself that you will use to answer questions.

Source Name: Page #501. Page #501: (
Connections Social and Environmental Contexts: Endocrine Disruptors in the Environment

Hormones influence nearly all aspects of the body processes in animals, notably cellular development, growth, and reproduction. Scientists noticed that animals in areas contaminated by pollutants began to exhibit certain types of abnormalities, which led to the question of whether certain pollutants may be linked to endocrine effects on body systems.

Substances that interfere with the normal functions of hormones are called endocrine disruptors, which upset the growth, development, and reproduction of organisms by mimicking natural hormones or blocking their effects. For example, when fish populations are exposed to reproductive endocrine disruptors, young males' sexual organs fail to fully develop, and in extreme cases, males produce eggs, both effects are examples of feminization. Endocrine disruptors that mimic estrogen can cause feminization, while substances that block the action of male reproductive hormones can have feminizing effects.

Endocrine disruptors tend to be diluted in lakes and rivers, making it difficult to assess their impact in the environment. However, scientists have observed effects such as the feminization of fish near sewage discharge sites and impaired reproduction and development of fish near pulp and paper mills. Even treated sewage contains obvious endocrine disruptors such as synthetic estrogen from birth control pills.

Many cosmetics, including some but not all brands of nail polish, contain endocrine-disrupting chemicals in amounts comparable to, and sometimes greater than, hormone levels in the human body. The table shows selected products containing endocrine disruptors such as fire retardants, pesticides, soft plastics, and pulp and paper mill effluent.

Scientists and representatives of industrial manufacturers debate whether these chemicals pose a health risk to humans. Evidence suggests that endocrine disruptors are leading to lower sperm counts, reduced fertility in both men and women, and increased rates of certain types of cancers. Some studies have suggested a link between endocrine disruptors and learning and behavior problems in children. However, direct links between environmental exposure to endocrine disruptors and human health effects have not been established.

To identify and mediate the risks that these chemicals pose to the environment and organisms, continued research that includes the cooperation of industry and financial support of governments is necessary.

Questions:

Should a potential endocrine disruptor be considered “guilty until proven innocent” or “innocent until proven guilty” before being put on the market? Justify your response.

What would you need to know to link a particular substance to specific endocrine disrupting effects in a population, such as unusually high cancer rates?
)



