Reply to this message with the source name and all the text in the bracket is the source itself that you will use to answer questions.

Source Name: Page #485. Page #485: (Section 14.1 Review: Comparing Sperm Cells and Egg Cells

Table 14.4 Comparing Sperm Cells and Egg Cells

Criterion for
comparison Sperm cell Egg cell

size The head is about 5 μm long. The middle piece is about
5 μm long. The flagellum is about 40 μm long.

energy Before ejaculation, the mitochondria process fat to provide
reserves energy. After ejaculation, the mitochondria process
fructose (a sugar) in seminal fluid to provide energy.
Inside a woman’s body, sperm can live for three to five days.

mitochondria The middle piece of a sperm cell contains about 50 to
100 mitochondria, which supply ATP to provide energy
for movement.

numbers Sperm are continuously produced. About 300 to 500
produced million sperm are produced each day in a male’s lifetime.

An egg cell is about 100 μm in diameter.

An egg can only live for about one day if it is not fertilized.
If it is fertilized, it will implant in the endometrium,
which serves as an energy source.

The cytoplasm of an egg cell contains about 140 000
mitochondria.

At puberty, each ovary contains 300 000 to 400 000 egg-
forming structures (follicles). Usually, one egg is released
from one of the ovaries each month.

motility Sperm are motile. A sperm cell has an undulating tail
(flagellum) that enables it to swim in fluid media.

outer The sperm head has a cap called an acrosome, which
structures contains enzymes that help the sperm enter an egg.

Eggs are not motile. They have no structures to propel
themselves.

An egg is covered by a specialized outer coating which, in
most cases, can only be penetrated by sperm of the same
species.

Section 14.1 Review

1. What are the two main purposes of the gonads in both
males and females?
2. For each of the following structures, write a short
description to indicate whether it is found in the male or
female reproductive system and to summarize its function:
a) fimbriae c) endometrium
b) ductus deferens d) epididymis

3. List the organs and glands that contribute to the
components of semen.

4. Which structures contribute to the movement of the
ovum from the ovary to the uterus?

5. Draw a labelled diagram to describe the pathway of
a sperm cell through the male reproductive system,
beginning from the testes.

6. Identify the labelled structures in the following image.

A

B

7. Briefly describe the structures of a sperm cell and an
ovum. How does the structure of each cell relate to its
function?
8. A man who is having difficulty conceiving children with
his wife is advised by his doctor to wear looser pants.
How could a change in clothing make a difference to
this man’s reproductive system?)


