Reply to this message with the source name and all the text in bracket is the source itself that you will use to answer questions.

Source Name: Page #484. Page #484: (
Table 14.3 Functions of the Female Reproductive Organs

Ovaries: produce eggs and sex hormones
Fimbriae: sweep an egg into an oviduct
Oviducts: conduct an egg from the ovary to the uterus; (Fallopian tubes) place where fertilization occurs
Uterus (womb): houses the developing fetus
Cervix: opening to the uterus
Vagina: receives the penis during sexual intercourse; serves as the birth canal and as the exit for menstrual flow
The ovum survives in the oviduct for up to 24 hours after ovulation. If a living egg encounters sperm in the oviduct, fertilization may take place. The fertilized egg, now called a zygote, continues to move through the oviduct for several days before reaching the uterus. During this time, the endometrium thickens as it prepares to receive the zygote. The zygote implants itself in the endometrium, and development of the embryo begins. If the egg is not fertilized, it does not implant in the endometrium. The endometrium disintegrates, and its tissues and blood flow out the vagina in a process known as menstruation.

The vagina opens into the female external genital organs, known together as the vulva. The vulva includes the labia majora and labia minora, which are two pairs of skin folds that protect the vaginal opening. The vulva also includes the glans clitoris. Like the penis, the glans clitoris becomes erect during sexual arousal.

Differences between Sperm Cells and Egg Cells

In Investigation 14.A, you studied some of the visible differences between sperm cells and egg cells. These gametes differ in many other significant ways, some of which are outlined in Table 14.4. All of these differences relate to the biological function of uniting one gamete from each parent to create the single cell that will develop to become a new person.

Section 14.1 Summary

Fertilization takes place when a sperm cell, the male gamete, fuses with an ovum, the female gamete. This event follows from reproductive processes that take place within the bodies of the male and female parent.
The male reproductive system is adapted to produce and release large quantities of motile sperm cells.
Sperm production begins in the seminiferous tubules of the testes. Developing sperm are transported into the epididymis for maturation and storage.
During sexual arousal, sperm move into the ductus deferens.
Sperm are mixed with fluids from a series of glands to create semen. Semen is carried through the penis and released into the female reproductive tract.
The female reproductive system is adapted to produce and release small numbers of ova.
Ova are produced in follicles within the ovary.
Each month a single ovum is released and is carried through the oviduct. If the egg encounters sperm in the oviduct, it may