Reply to this message with the source name and all the text in the bracket is the source itself that you will use to answer questions.

Source Name: Page #497. Page #497: (
The Ovarian Cycle

Figure 14.14 illustrates the ovarian cycle, and Figure 14.15 illustrates the hormone systems that control this cycle. The ovarian cycle can be roughly divided into two stages: the follicular stage and the luteal stage.

Follicular Stage:

FSH released by the anterior pituitary gland stimulates one follicle to mature.
As the follicle matures, it releases estrogen and some progesterone.
Rising estrogen levels inhibit FSH release from the anterior pituitary gland.
High estrogen levels trigger a sudden release of GnRH from the hypothalamus, leading to a sharp increase in LH production by the anterior pituitary, which triggers ovulation (follicle bursts, releasing its ovum).
Luteal Stage:

LH causes the follicle to develop into a corpus luteum.
Corpus luteum secretes progesterone and some estrogen.
Rising progesterone and estrogen levels inhibit FSH and LH production.
Corpus luteum degenerates, leading to a decrease in estrogen and progesterone levels.
Low levels of sex hormones cause the anterior pituitary to increase its secretion of FSH, and the cycle begins again.
If the ovum is fertilized and implants in the endometrium, blood hormone levels of progesterone and estrogen remain high under stimulus of hCG released by embryo-supporting membranes. The continued presence of progesterone maintains the endometrium to support the developing fetus. The continued presence of estrogen stops the ovarian cycle so no additional follicles mature.

Thought Lab: Development of the Corpus Luteum

In this activity, you will identify the structures that remain constant and the structures that change in the ovary.
Some structures in the ovary remain fairly constant throughout a female’s lifetime, while others develop, change, and disappear through each menstrual cycle.
Procedure:
Copy the outline of an ovary into your science notebook.
Sketch and label the following structures in your diagram: immature follicle, ovum, developing follicle, mature corpus luteum, mature follicle, disintegrating corpus luteum.
Identify which structures would be visible in the ovary of a woman who was just beginning her menstrual period.
Analysis:
Explain where you would look to find the corpus luteum in a tissue sample, and why.
Discuss the adaptive advantage of having reproductive function regulated by a gland that develops and disappears within a few weeks.
Extension:
3. Use appropriate presentation software or develop and write your own code to demonstrate the development and disintegration of the corpus luteum within the ovary. ICT.
)


