Reply to this message with the source name and all the text in the bracket is the source itself that you will use to answer questions.

Source Name: Page #490. Page #490: (
Syphilis

Syphilis is a bacterial infection that is
transmitted through sexual contact. The
bacteria cause a range of symptoms that
appear in distinct stages.

During the first stage, a painless sore
called a chancre appears at the site of
infection. The sore may occur anywhere on
the skin, but it generally appears on the
palms of the hands and the soles of the feet.
Any contact with the infected person may
spread the infection.

During the second stage, a rash
develops. The rash may occur anywhere on
the skin and is usually accompanied by
fever, swollen lymph glands, and fatigue.
The rash may last several weeks and then
disappear.

During the third stage, the infection
begins to affect the cardiovascular and
nervous systems. An infected person may
become mentally ill, blind, or lame, and
may develop heart disease. Large,
destructive ulcers called gummas may
develop on the skin or internal organs.
During any stage, syphilitic bacteria
can infect a developing embryo, causing
birth defects or stillbirth.

If the disease is not treated early, the
bacteria can cause permanent damage.
Fortunately, syphilis is readily diagnosed
and can be treated effectively with
antibiotics, including penicillin. Health
professionals are concerned, however,
that both risky sexual behaviour and lack
of awareness are contributing to new
regional outbreaks of syphilis.

Table 14.5 Preventing Transmission of STIs
Way to prevent transmission Description

Abstinence Not engaging in any sexual activity is the only sure protection against all STIs.
Long-term relationships Relationships with the same partner are generally safe if monogamous; however, neither partner has an STI. Some STIs, such as HPV, can be dormant for many years before symptoms appear, however. Many people who have STIs are not aware of their infection.
Condoms Using male or female condoms can reduce but does not eliminate, the risk of STI transmission.
Personal responsibility Safe sexual practices include not using alcohol or drugs, which can impair self-control or personal judgment. Sexual practices that are known to increase the risk of STI transmission include having multiple partners or partners who use intravenous drugs. Any practices that involve contact between the genitals and the mouth or rectum also increase the risk of STI transmission.
Controlling the Spread of STIs in Canada
Many cases of STIs go undiagnosed simply because people are not aware of the significance of their symptoms. When people know the symptoms of STIs, they are more likely to be tested and treated before they infect others. For this reason, health practitioners stress education and awareness programs as an essential part of controlling the spread of STIs. Since many people carry STIs without knowing it, health practitioners also stress the importance of personal responsibility for safe sex practices. Table 14.5 provides some examples of ways that people can protect themselves from STI transmission. STIs can lead to very serious diseases, but they are preventable.

Section 14.2 Summary
• Sexual intercourse can be a way of transmitting infections from one person to another.
• Sexually transmitted infections (STIs) may have a variety of effects, from temporary discomfort to permanent damage of the reproductive system and other body systems. Some STIs can be fatal.
• STIs may be caused by viral and bacterial infection.
• Common viral STIs may be caused by viral and bacterial infection.

• Common viral STIs include HIV/AIDS, hepatitis B, genital herpes, and human papilloma virus (genital warts).

• Common bacterial STIs include chlamydia, gonorrhea, and syphilis. For many of these STIs, young people show the highest rates of infection.

• One of the greatest challenges in controlling the spread of STIs is that many people who are infected show no symptoms. These people may unknowingly pass the infection on to other individuals.

• Education, awareness, and responsible practices are important elements of public health strategies for prevention and treatment of STIs.) 