Reply to this message with the source name and all the text in the bracket is the source itself that you will use to answer questions.

Source Name: Page #495. Page #495: (
Aging and the Male Reproductive System

A man in good health can remain fertile for his entire life. However, most men experience a gradual decline in their testosterone level beginning around age 40, a condition called andropause. Some men may experience symptoms such as fatigue, depression, loss of muscle and bone mass, and a drop in sperm production due to the hormonal change. Low doses of testosterone may help to counter the symptoms of andropause. Not all men experience symptoms of andropause, and because the symptoms can vary widely, this condition is difficult to diagnose accurately.

Other hormonal changes associated with aging can also affect the male reproductive system. For example, the prostate gland often begins to grow gradually in men over age 40, leading to discomfort and urinary difficulties as it squeezes on the urethra. Older men have an increased risk of prostate gland cancer, and surgery may be used to provide relief and reduce the cancer risk. Younger men are more prone to developing infections of the prostate, which may cause a burning sensation when urinating or a need to urinate more frequently. Antibiotics are usually prescribed to fight the infection and reduce inflammation.

Sex Hormones and the Female Reproductive System

The development of female sex organs in a genetically female embryo is triggered by specific hormonal factors, and recent research has shown that it is more complex than previously thought. Girls usually begin puberty between the ages of 9 and 13 years. The hypothalamus increases its production of GnRH, which triggers the release of LH and FSH by the anterior pituitary. FSH and LH act on the ovaries to produce estrogen and progesterone, which stimulate the development of female secondary sex characteristics and launch a reproductive cycle that will continue until middle age.

Hormonal Regulation of the Female Reproductive System

In humans, female reproductive function follows a cyclical pattern known as the menstrual cycle, usually about 28 days long. The menstrual cycle ensures that an ovum is released at the same time as the uterus is most receptive to a fertilized egg. FSH and LH stimulate the ovaries to produce estrogen and progesterone, which control the menstrual cycle.

BiologyFile Try This

Copy an outline of Figure into your notebook, 14.13 including the labels. Add plus signs (+) and negative signs (–) beside the arrows to show which hormones have a stimulating action and which have an inhibitory action.

Web Link

Testosterone may be prescribed by a licensed physician for specific medical conditions and treatments. However, it may also be used illegally in synthetic form as an anabolic steroid by people looking for a fast, easy way to build muscle mass, reduce fat, and improve endurance. The legal and illegal uses of testosterone differ, and there are risks associated with its use.

Chapter 14: The Continuance of Human Life - MHR 495
)