Reply to this message with the source name and all the text in the bracket is the source itself that you will use to answer questions.

Source Name: Page #486. Page #486: (SECTION 14.2 The Effect of Sexually Transmitted Infections on the Reproductive Systems

Sexual intercourse involves close physical contact and the exchange of body fluids. For this reason, sexual intercourse can transmit infections from one person to another. An infection that is transmitted only or mainly by sexual contact is generally known as a sexually transmitted infection, or STI.

STIs may be caused by viruses, bacteria, and parasites. STIs of greatest concern are those caused by viruses and bacteria. The most common viral STIs are HIV/AIDS, hepatitis, genital herpes, and human papilloma virus (HPV). The most common bacterial STIs are chlamydia, gonorrhea, and syphilis.

HIV/AIDS

The acronym AIDS stands for acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. AIDS is caused by a group of related viruses that are collectively called human immunodeficiency virus, or HIV. HIV attacks a particular form of white blood cell known as helper T cells, which form part of the immune system. As the level of helper T cells in the blood decreases, the infected person becomes more vulnerable to infections that may lead to sickness and death in people who are diagnosed with acute AIDS.

HIV is transmitted through sexual contact with an infected person. HIV can also be transmitted among intravenous drug users who share needles. Children of mothers who are infected with HIV may themselves be infected before or during birth or through breastfeeding.

Hepatitis

The group of diseases known as hepatitis includes three types of viral infections: hepatitis A, B, and C. Hepatitis A is usually contracted by drinking water that is contaminated with fecal material. As well, it can be transmitted through oral or anal contact. Hepatitis B is spread in a similar way to HIV, through the exchange of body fluids, including sexual contact. Hepatitis C is transmitted mainly through contact with infected blood.

According to the Centre for Infectious Disease Prevention and Control, between 1985 and 2004, approximately 57,000 people in Canada tested positive for HIV infection. About 20,000 of these people have developed full-blown AIDS, and more than 13,000 have died.)



