Reply to this message with the source name and all the text in the bracket is the source itself that you will use to answer questions.

Source Name: Page #483. Page #483: (
Female Reproductive System

The uterus is a hollow, muscular organ that increases in size as the fetus develops. The lining of the uterus, called the endometrium, is richly supplied with blood vessels to provide nutrients for the fetus. At its upper end, the uterus connects to the oviducts. At its base, the uterus forms a narrow opening called the cervix. The cervix, in turn, connects to the vagina, which serves as an entrance for the erect penis to deposit sperm.

Investigation 14.A: Examining Gonads and Gametes

Testicles and ovaries serve the same two basic purposes: the production of gametes and the release of sex hormones. In this investigation, you will use a microscope to examine and compare testicular and ovarian tissues.

Procedure:

Part 1: Testicular Tissue

Mount the prepared slide of testicular tissue on the microscope stage.
Under low power, examine the specimen. Look for several circular structures. These are the seminiferous tubules.
Draw and label a diagram of the specimen as it appears under low power.
Switch to medium and then high power to examine one seminiferous tubule. Try to identify developing sperm cells, mature sperm cells, and interstitial cells.
Draw and label a diagram of the specimen as it appears under high power.
Part 2: Ovarian Tissue

Mount the prepared slide of ovarian tissue on the microscope stage.
Under low power, examine the specimen. Look for developing follicles near the outer edge of the ovary. Try to identify immature ova within the developing follicles.
A mature follicle will appear as a large, fluid-filled structure that contains an ovum. How many mature follicles can you find in the specimen?
Create and label a diagram of the specimen as it appears under low power.
Switch to medium and then high power to examine a mature follicle with an ovum.
Draw and label a diagram of the specimen as it appears under high power.
Analysis:

How does the number of sperm cells that are visible in the testicular tissue specimen compare with the number of ova that are visible in the ovarian tissue specimen?
How does the size of the sperm cells in the testicular tissue specimen compare with the size of the ova in the ovarian tissue specimen?
Conclusion:
3. Explain how the differences in the size and quantity of the gametes in the male and female gonads contribute to their reproductive functions. )



