Reply to this message with the source name and all the text in the bracket is the source itself that you will use to answer questions.

Source Name: Page #505. Page #505-506: (
18. a) Two main events of the menstrual cycle are the release of an egg from an ovary and the build-up of the uterine lining. Use the data table to predict which of the hormones A, B, or C would be associated with each of these two events. Assume the cycle length is 28 days.

Relative hormone concentration:
Day of menstrual cycle: A B C
1 12 5 10
5 14 5 14
9 14 5 13
13 70 10 20
17 12 60 9
21 12 150 8
25 8 100 8
1 12 5 10

b) A woman is having difficulty becoming pregnant. For the last month, her hormone levels have been measured on each of the eight days listed in the data table. Hormone A remained steady at 12. Hormone B remained steady at 5. Hormone C had the levels shown in the data table. How could these hormone levels explain her fertility difficulties?

19. Imagine that you are a government official in a health department. In response to pressure from community groups, your department has created a new, $10 million program to fight the spread of STIs. The program includes work in two different areas: education and awareness campaigns; and scientific research on treatment and vaccines. How would you divide the funding between these two program areas? Explain your reasoning.
Making Connections

20. An individual whose chromosomal (genetic) sex is XX has inherited a genetic defect so that cellular receptors for estrogen are lacking.
a) Would you expect this person to have testes or ovaries? Explain why.
b) Can this person respond to estrogen? Why or why not, and what effects will this have on the body?
c) The adrenal cortex produces some testosterone. Is it possible that this person could have the secondary sex characteristics of a male? Explain.
d) Predict whether this individual is fertile and give reasons for your answer.

21. The mortality rate of sperm is high compared to the mortality rate of eggs. Suggest reasons why this might be the case.

22. Chlamydia can be readily cured with antibiotics. Why then are there so many new cases of chlamydia reported each year? Give three reasons.

23. When a woman becomes pregnant, menstruation stops for the duration of the pregnancy.
a) Explain how menstruation is prevented if pregnancy occurs.
b) Explain why menstruation begins again after the pregnancy.

24. Some male athletes take anabolic steroids to enhance their performance. These substances mimic the action of testosterone but are not identical to testosterone. The side effects of steroid use can include changes that might be associated with an increase in sex hormones in the body, such as increased muscular development and aggressiveness. However, side effects can also include changes that might be associated with a decrease in sex hormones, such as the shrinking of testicles and the loss of facial hair. Using hormone feedback systems, explain how a drug that mimics the effect of testosterone could have these apparently contradictory effects on the male body.
)



