Reply to this message with the source name and all the text in the bracket is the source itself that you will use to answer questions.

Source Name: Page #492. Page #492: (
Section: Hormonal Regulation of the Reproductive System (14.3)

Section Outcomes:

Identify the main reproductive hormones and describe how they interact.
Explain the role of sex hormones in the development and regulation of primary and secondary sex characteristics.
Analyze blood hormone data and associated physiological events.
Research and assess the medical use of reproductive hormones in humans.
Key Terms:

Chromosomal sex
Puberty
Gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH)
Follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH)
Luteinizing hormone (LH)
Testosterone
Inhibin
Andropause
Estrogen
Progesterone
Menstrual cycle
Corpus luteum
Follicular stage
Luteal stage
Menopause
Hormone replacement therapy (HRT)
Figure 14.12: The cells of this four-week-old human are already programmed with a genetic sex. The primary sex characteristics of this embryo, however, will not be evident for several more weeks.

The chromosomal sex, or genetic sex, of an individual is determined at fertilization. An embryo that carries the sex chromosome combination XY is genetically male. An embryo that carries the sex chromosome combination XX is genetically female.

Until about the seventh week of development, male and female embryos are anatomically identical. After this time, the presence or absence of specific hormones determines which sex organs develop, when the sex organs mature, and how they function. Many of the same reproductive hormones are at work in both males and females. The interaction of genetic and hormonal factors produces different reproductive systems in each sex.

Table 14.6: Main sex hormones and their effects

Sex Hormones and the Male Reproductive System:

The development of the male sex organs begins before birth.
Embryos that are genetically male have the testis-determining factor (TDF) gene on the Y chromosome, which triggers the production of male sex hormones (androgens).
Androgens initiate the development of male sex organs and ducts in the fetus.
As reproductive structures develop, they migrate within the body to their final locations.
[The text continues on page 493.]
)