Reply to this message with the source name and all the text in the bracket is the source itself that you will use to answer questions.

Source Name: Page #487. Page #487: (
Sexually Transmitted Infections: Hepatitis B and Genital Herpes

Hepatitis B and C:

Hepatitis B is transmitted in the same way as HIV—through sexual contact or through other contact with infected body fluids or blood. For this reason, hepatitis B is considered to be an STI. Hepatitis C is transmitted through blood-to-blood contact with infected needles or syringes.

Each year, about 3000 Canadians are diagnosed with hepatitis B. Symptoms of the initial infection are flu-like, including fever, headache, nausea, loss of appetite, and abdominal pain. The skin of an infected person may become yellowish, a condition known as jaundice. A hepatitis B infection can progress to cause infection of the liver, leading to liver failure, liver cancer, and even death. Hepatitis viruses can cross the placenta to infect an unborn child. Some people recover completely, while others become asymptomatic carriers that can still infect other people with the virus.

Effective and safe vaccines for hepatitis A and B are available. The hepatitis B vaccine is administered routinely to babies in Canada, and physicians recommend vaccination for people who work in the health system and for people whose lifestyles put them at risk of infection.

Genital Herpes:

Genital herpes is an extremely common viral STI, caused by one of two herpes viruses: herpes simplex 1 (HSV 1) or herpes simplex 2 (HSV 2). HSV 2 is more likely to be acquired through genital contact, causing genital herpes. Once someone is infected with herpes, the symptoms usually appear within a month. The symptoms vary widely among individuals, including tingling, itching, and blisters, which can appear anywhere on the body, but most commonly on the genitals, buttocks, and thighs. After the initial outbreak, the blisters may recur with varying frequency or not at all, triggered by fever, stress, sunlight, intercourse, or certain foods.

Genital herpes means an increased risk of HIV infection and transmission from an infected mother to her baby during birth, causing blindness, neurological disorders, and even death. The Canadian health system does not maintain statistics on rates of herpes infection, but researchers estimate that almost one in three sexually active people in Canada has genital herpes, and this number is rising. Despite over 20 years of research, a successful vaccine remains elusive.

FYI:

The herpes simplex viruses are closely related to the viruses that cause chicken pox and mononucleosis.
Figure 14.7 is a photomicrograph of the herpes virus infecting a cell.
)