Reply to this message with the source name and all the text in the bracket is the source itself that you will use to answer questions.

Source Name: Page #504. Page #504: (
Chapter 14: Understanding Concepts

1. Name the structures within a testis, and describe their functions.
2. In which part of the body are each of the following produced?
a) testosterone
b) progesterone
c) sperm
d) luteinizing hormone
e) follicle stimulating hormone
f) ovum
3. Outline, in the form of a labelled sketch or flow chart, the path of a sperm cell from its formation to the moment it reaches an ovum. In your answer, identify all the male and female structures through which the sperm travels.
4. List three of the components of semen, and briefly explain what these fluids contribute to reproductive function.
5.Construct a table or graphic organizer to compare and contrast the source, common modes of transmission, effects, and treatments for the following sexually transmitted infections.
a) HIV/AIDS
b) hepatitis B
c) genital herpes
d) human papilloma virus
e) chlamydia
f) gonorrhea
g) syphilis
6. 
a) How would a newborn child acquire an infection of chlamydia, gonorrhea, syphilis, and herpes?
b) What effects do these STIs have on infants?
7. What are the health risks and treatment options associated with each of the infections in question 5?
8. Describe the stages of development of a follicle within an ovary.
9. Describe the changes in the endometrium through the stages of the menstrual cycle.
10. Compare the levels of sex hormones in the blood of a female before and after the onset of puberty, and describe how these changes affect the reproductive system.
11. The following graph represents the average blood concentration of four circulating hormones collected from 50 healthy adult women who were not pregnant. Use the graph to answer the following questions:
Y
X
Z
a) Which line represents luteinizing hormone?
b) Which line represents progesterone?
c) Which hormone increases during the last half of the menstrual cycle?
d) Suggest a hormone that the green line might represent.
12. Penicillin is an antibiotic that effectively cures syphilis. Explain why penicillin would be ineffective against AIDS.
13. Describe the effect you would expect to see in a human male whose sperm cells have no acrosome.
14. Do the names “follicle stimulating hormone” and “luteinizing hormone” correspond to their function in the human reproductive system? Give examples to justify your answer.
15. Young female athletes often experience delayed puberty. What would you expect to find if you compare the blood hormone levels of a fourteen-year-old gymnast with those of less athletic girls of the same age?
16. Farmers who maintain stocks of large animals often castrate the males. Based on the hormonal control of the male reproductive system, explain the likely physiological and behavioral effects of castration. What advantages does castration offer to the farmer?
17. A young woman tells her doctor that she is experiencing irregular menstrual periods.
a) Hypothesize some possible causes of the irregularity.
b) Design an investigation that could test for one of these causes.
)