Reply to this message with the source name and all the text in the bracket is the source itself that you will use to answer questions.

Source Name: Page #491. Page #491: (
STIs: What To Know

Thought Lab and How To Know It

In Canada, the rate of infection for several STIs is highest among teenagers and young adults. In the coming years, many of these people will want to start families. What do young people need to know about how STIs can affect their bodies? What strategy would you design to reach this audience?

Procedure:

In your group, choose one STI that will be the focus of your education program.
Use print and Internet resources to learn about the STI you chose. In particular, find out what effects the STI can have on the male and female reproductive systems.
Organize your findings in a written report. Your report should include the following information:
The cause of the STI
The effects of the STI on the human body and, in particular, the male and female reproductive systems
Why young adults are the age group at greatest risk for acquiring an STI
The issues and challenges involved in preventing and controlling the transmission of the STI
Using the information in your report, develop an education program aimed at young people. Decide on the two or three most important messages. Then decide how you will deliver these messages. For example, you could create print advertisements for a magazine, produce a music video, or write and perform a play. Deliver your presentation to your class.
Section 14.2 Review:

Give two examples of viral STIs and two examples of bacterial STIs.
What is pelvic inflammatory disease, and why is it a concern?
In what ways can a woman who is infected with an STI present a health risk to her baby? Give three examples.
Some people who become infected with an STI may show no symptoms.
a) How does this present a risk to the health of the infected individual?
b) How does this present a public health risk?
Target Skills:

Planning a strategy to communicate effectively information about sexually transmitted infections to a teenage audience
Working cooperatively to research and communicate findings about damage to the reproductive systems caused by STIs
Analysis:

Which STIs are most likely to disrupt the function of the human reproductive system?
Which STIs are most likely to cause permanent damage to the human reproductive system?
Which education program do you think was the most effective? What made it effective?
What do you think are the most serious challenges for health practitioners who want to reach young people in Canada? What could be done to meet these challenges?
Extension:
5. Some strategies to control the spread of STIs raise social and ethical issues. For example, some people argue that people should be able to test themselves for STIs in the privacy of their own homes. Other people believe that tests should always be conducted in a health clinic so that the results can be recorded. Working with a partner, choose an ethical issue associated with STIs. Prepare a short debate to argue both sides of the issue. What did you conclude?

A friend says to you, "viral STIs are always more serious than bacterial STIs, because they are not curable." How would you respond? Include specific examples to support your argument.
Programs that are designed to teach young people about STIs are often controversial. Many people believe that young people should be taught to abstain entirely from sexual contact. Other people believe that young people should be taught about safe sex practices.
a) List two arguments that could be made on each side of this issue.
b) Is it possible for health practitioners to design education campaigns that respect both views? Explain your ideas in an editorial. ICT 
)